                       So what's in this file then?
                       ----------------------------

  On the long way to a  finished  program  a  lot of routines and stuff get
left behind, and Hell in Heaven is no exception.  In his first plot for the
intro, Scarycat suggested a rotating  logo.  I soon realised that unless we
wanted to fill up most of the  disk  with  animation  frames (we were still
thinking in terms of a one-disk release  back then...), a vector object was
required. So I made one.
  It's not as hard as it sounds; I  just  made  some letters with Pixel Pro
and stored the object in the most comprehensible  format, then wrote a pro-
gram that reads the data and draws  the  logo.  To make it more interesting
(?) I added a little formula to make the straight letters into italics. The
next step should have been to get involved in three-dimensional trigonomet-
rics and write some complicated  routine  to make the logo spin arounds six
different axes, but I kind of got lost  (it is after all twenty years since
I went to school!) and did a static  flat  version  instead, and to make it
more interesting I added a rainbow  effect.  Even though it's the only logo
we have on file that tries to identify the group as Norwegian/Swedish¹, our
esteemed leader did not like it, so it  got scrapped in favour of a painted
logo.
  After working on the intro for a  while  I realised that we didn't have a
title page yet, so I started thinking and  got some ideas for an "animated"
title page - which the boss  didn't  like  either,  so the finished program
uses a painting by him.
  Now I've got two more or less clever routines  that look like they'll ne-
ver be used anywhere, and since there's some space left over on this disk I
decided to use some of that space to let you have a look at them anyway! To
make a complete sentence (?) I have inserted  a "presents" between the logo
and the title page, but that's just  a  cheap zoom effect that was'nt meant
to be used  for  anything  whatsoever.  (The  only  other thing I've got to
insert between the logo and the title page is the routine that did get used
in the finished intro, but you've  seen that  already, so I see no point in
using space on repeating it.)

                                                              --- Won-Tolla

¹In case this gets read by someone on the other side of the Earth: When you
first see the logo it's red, white and  blue - the colours of the Norwegian
flag. It then changes into blue and yellow, which are the Swedish colours!
