»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
   »CL8:»BIG: TCP 1997 - Live partyreport
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL4:             by Curt Cool
»CL0:
Okay, now we are seated at »CL1:The
Copenhagen Party 1997», held by »CL3:"Dansk
Gruppe af Computerfreaks"» ("Danish
Group of Computerfreaks").
And let me tell you this, our 
expectations for this party were not 
too high, and even then, we were
»CL1:disappointed.»

If we have to mention the plus side
first (and we have to, not to sound
too negative), the party surroundings
are rather good, featuring both
showers and a separate building close
by, ensuring quiet sleeping.
But mind you, on monday night the
weather was really bad, and although
the windows were closed, the rain
still managed »CL1:to get inside», and some
raindrops also got through the roof,
perhaps the building is up for a
serious makeup, or ready to be
demolished.

On the minus side we have that most of
the organizers are complete »CL1:ignorants»
when it comes to the scene, old, fat,
disgusting computer nerds, who
obviously do not know a single thing
about how to organize a demo party.
This is why this party from now on in
this article will be described as a 
meeting instead.
Mind you, there actually are nice,
friendly and clever organizers present
at the party, but obviously they
haven't had a single thing to say
about the meeting.
Well, the list of the mistakes made by
the organizers is almost endless, but
to name but a few would be
appropriate. For instance it is »CL1:not
allowed to bring your own food», since
the organizers wants the attenders to
buy the overpriced food which is
possible to buy at the meeting. Of
course booze is not allowed either,
but then again, this is the case at
most demoparties.
Another great minus is the »CL3:lottery».
Yes, the organizers seem to think that
the scene consists of a lot of old 
ladies wanting to buy lottery tickets,
with prizes so wonderful you can't
imagine it: Towels, Coca-Cola etc.!
 »PIC:TCP97»














Then there is the general problems
with the information contained in the
invitation: In the invitation there
was »CL3:no adress» of the meeting, »CL3:no
guidelines» on how to get here, and as
the party lasts for a whole week, it
is also quite annoying for people who
only has time to come during weekends
that there was no »CL3:time-schedule» in the
invitation. (Oups! I have just made a
really cool demo which would win the
compo, but the deadline has already
been and gone...).
And I could also mention the fact that
it is not possible to buy one day
tickets. After all, I don;t think
everyone wants to pay dkr. 350 for
being here one day. Which brings us to
another problem, namely that the price
of a classroom with seats for 10
people is 1500 dkr., whereas a single
ticket for the main hall costs dkr.
350. Why not have one price to attend
the party for a week and avoid the
confusion?
At the meeting, members of most of the
Danish groups are present: Depth,
IRIS, Puzzle, Efreet, Loonies, Rebels,
Scoopex, Fnuque, Ambrosia, Death Row +
some independents like Melomaniac,
Kollaps/ex. Focus Design & Tactica are
here, or have been here. And although
everyone agrees that the organization
is rubbish, we still have fun with
eachother, for instance Cytron,
Gizmoduck, Quedax, Nightsight & Curt 
Cool/Depth went grilling at Bakermans
place yesterday, together with NME &
Hille/Insanity.

But one thing is for sure, the
promised »CL1:"one week of computer fun"» is
provided by the »CL8:attenders» themselves
and »CL9:NOT» by the organizers!
