»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:        »BIG:OF COURSE WE HAVE
»SML:        »BIG: TO HAVE HANDLES!
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Darkhawk/iris

»CL0:Well, this article is an reply to an
article published in Oepir Risti #5,
written by »CL1:Tobias Jansson/Citron.»
Heh.. It was about whether to have
handles or not. Recently this Tobias
fellow renamed to his current, real
name and dropped his scenehandle,
which was »CL1:Electron». His business. But
he goes ahead and writes and article
stating that handles are childish, and
that we maybe should use our real
names instead..

Good, with this short repetition out
of the way, let's begin.. But maybe I
should state that you may ofcourse do
as you please Tobias, and I'm only
giving my point of view in this
article, and no slagging of your
opinions are intended, or maybe it is,
but I have nothing against you, ok?
So, you write that there might have
been a reason for having a handle when
there were only crackers in the scene,
and they had to protect their
identity. Now where most of the scene
is more or less legal, there is no
practical need for handles.. Might be,
but, handles ARE the scene, just as
groupnames are. I have no doubt that
only a select few will agree with your
article, luckily. Maybe the ones to
agree with you will be adult, mature
»CL0:persons, as you seem to think that
sceners pick their name to be somebody
else, to mask their identity, to get a
little excitement, etc.. Sure enough,
I guess many sceners find it cool with
the idea of handles instead of real
names. It's ofcourse a kind of
roleplay and, if you didn't know,
roleplays tend to be funny. As I
stated before, handles are the scene.
It's one of the unspoken laws.. A
scener got to have a handle and a
group. Yes, maybe it could be changed
but it would surely be very hard. And
why should we change it. Why, it's
practically a step towards
commercializing the scene. The scene
is unique, and all sceners find it
appealing that in the scene, things
are not like in their daily lifes. THE
SCENE IS A BIG ROLEPLAY! And why
change that, making the scene less
unique, more normal etc?? Sure, you
must be so old, you think everything
not normal is automatically childish.
But we got to do something childish
now and then, don't we? And, something
else (pow, bang, slam :), IF you
really thing that handles are SOOO
childish and IF you really think that
non-sceners will respect you more if
you use your real name when telling
them about the scene, how do you think
they would react if you told them:
"Yes, i'm a graphician with the name
of »CL1:Tobias Jansson», and I'm a member
in, ehmm.. »CL1:Citron»!! Now, wouldn't they
run away screaming? You really write a
lot about how childish handles are and
that we should use our real names, but
»CL0:you forget (deliberately?) that
handles are but one side of the same
coin, and that, on the other side of
the coin are the names of the groups.
Isn't it then, according to your own
logic, also childish to have these
unserious groupnames? And what would
you want to do against that, »CL1:Tobias
Jansson/Citron». »CL8::-)» .. Maybe we could
call »CL4:Virtual Dreams» for »CL3:Virtual
Designs A/S», or »CL6:Polka Brothers» for »CL5:The
United Polka Dancers»? Would that sound
more mature? Or should we just drop
groups altogether, because their names
are so childish?? Hmm, hmm..

But, I guess I made my point.. If you
missed it, let me resume.. The scene
is NOT our normal life, and the scene
is so appealing for many, because it's
unique, you can be what you want, call
yourself what you want, and get

     »PIC:Z4»
















»CL0:credits and respect for it. THe entire
scene is infact childish, so the most
mature thing to do would be to drop
it. Do not mess around with the
concept of handles, it's the oldest
and most integrated part of the 
scene!
--------------------------------------

»CL4:As this article was meant to ne
included in DISC #11, it is pretty
old, and there have been reactions to
the Tobias Jansson article. Not that
many as I had thought but still there
have been some. I must say that there
has been a lot of the same as I have 
written stated by other writers, and 
I'm happy about that. The scene 
without handles would be dull. Anyway, 


  »PIC:BD2»







some guy called Alvin (that's his last
name), sympatizes with Tobias. that's
ok, he writes some good articles too,
but really. Seems like you are very
much aware of how people OUTSIDE of
the scene thinks about us. But that
isn't as important as the people 
inside, and they sseem to be happy
about it. Hmm, just wanted to update 
this article a little bit. That's all.
                     DARKHAWK/iris  