»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
          »BIG:»CL8:The Party Series
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Darkhawk/iris

»CL0:Yep, I'll write a bit about how the
party has developed from the first and
up to the sixth, which has just been 
held this christmas, and which should
be the last one. But read my
partyreport elsewhere in this mag.

I've been present on all these parties
except the first, and I think I'm able
to discern some changes, and to guess
how further TP's will be.

»CL1:The Party 2 (and 1)» was held in the
somewhat small town of »CL1:Aars», which is
almost as far away from everything as
you can get. It was decided to hold 
»CL1:the Party 6» in Aars too, to return to
the roots so to speak. »CL1:TP2» was one 
of the first modern parties, it
was too big to be an ordinary
copyparty, which all other parties at
that time were. There was a
laserdiscroom, a scene concert,
advanced audio/video equipment and
lots of »CL1:Amiga and C64 sceners». There
were also »CL1:Atari's and PC's» present,
although not that many. It seemed a
really big party at that time. I'd
never seen as many demos in a
competition before. Lots of diverse
and now long dead groups were present.
It really was a great party, although
the »CL1:WC facilities» were the worst I've
»CL0:ever experienced (and we had to
experience it again this year, argh!).
The space was rather crowded, but that
wasn't any problem back then. There 
was a big sleepinghall too, but it was 
very cold and we slept on concrete.
These are the only
negative things     »PIC:OP2»
I remember from
this party though,
when not counting
delays, and that I
missed the music-
competition because
I watched the Star
Wars Trilogy in the
(small) laserdisc
room. 



»CL1:The Party 3» was bigger - bigger in
every aspect. The party was now held
in »CL1:Herning», which has the absolute
best facilities, only the halls are
way too expensive. »CL1:4 halls» with
computerowners and various shops and 1
hall for sleeping (we didn't sleep on
concrete, as far as I remember). There
was a big laserdisc room, where they
also held seminars. I remember
officials from Commodore talking
brightly about the future - and going
into »CL3:bankruptcy» a few months later.
The cafeteria served a diversity of
food (well, more than at other parties
though). The competitions were great
too, the winner of the democompo was
»CL1:Nexus 7», and that should say it all,
heh. There was a good deal of »CL1:PC's» at
»CL0:this party, some »CL1:C64's» (awesome demos,
as always) but the most were »CL1:Amiga»
owners. I can't put my finger on
something negative at this party, the
toilet facilities were great too.
Others have complained about the
musiccompo, but that's the same almost
every year. Their votingsystem was
also quite brilliant, as they counted
the votes, we could see statistics of
who was leading on the big screen.
great idea, which was only used once.
Too much fuss apparently..

»CL1:The Party 4» was held the same place as
»CL1:TP3». Thus, the facilities were the
same, and this party lasted for 4
days! I found this to be a great
thing, but the organizers told me too
many complained about it, so they
dropped it at future parties. At this
party, there was arranged a »CL1:techno
rave» in a hall close by, and a little
techno concert was also held on the
mainstage, with two nice babes
dancing. This was a great party
aswell, but not as great as the ones
before. »CL1:Commodore» had been dead for
almost a year at this point, and
nobody knew what would happen with the
Amiga. This was really the party were
the »CL1:PC's» turned out in numbers, there
were almost more PC owners than Amiga
freaks there, and they all sat playing
»CL1:Doom». Although the facilities were
great, something was missing, the
party-athmosphere was dimmer. I also
remember that »CL1:TP4» was the party were
negative partyreports started growing,
at the other parties, people had
»CL0:almost only praises left for »CL1:TP».
Particularly the graphics and music
competitions were critizised. 
 

   »PIC:Z10»















OK, now we've arrived to »CL1:The Party 5»,
a more recent one, apart from The
Party 6, and TP5 was the most 
complained about party ever (?). 
First of all, I myself think that TP5
was worse than the others, but NOT as
bad as people seem to think. Some
people always complain, and
particularly in this case, I feel that
people have complained just because
others did it. This is not to say that
there weren't major faults in the
organizing, there certainly was. But I
think the real reason for TP5 being
such a bore is that the party-feeling
was really low and missing. Only the
»CL1:Wildcompo» was something in which you
said »CL2:"ahh"» and »CL2:"ohh"» (too bad none
could hear you with THAT volume).
»CL0:People didn't applaud much at TP5,
sadly. The party feeling was almost
completely gone, also from my
viewpoint. Why? We'll get to that. The
»CL1:rave in the sleepinghall» has been
QUITE critizised for sure. Anyway, I
didn't sleep then, it was only during
the early night the first day, so
there was no reason for me to sleep.
The party was held in a BIG hall in
Fredericia this year, the food was
expensive and boring (or downright
distasteful). Everybody could be in
this hall, but it felt TOO huge, cold
and unpersonal. There was no laserdisc
room either (there was one at TP6),
and the worst thing, which should
explain much of the lost partyfeeling,
was that there were, for the first
time in 5 years, more »CL1:PC's than
Amiga's» at The Party. Really, this
destroyed the last partyfeeling I
could have had. »CL1:Seeing those nerds
playing their games (mostly Doom II),
copying games and GIF pictures really
made a negative impact». The reason to
hold a SCENE party goes down the drain
with this, what started as a place
where one could meet friends, where
everybody contributed to the scene
with some skills, etc is being warped
into something HUGE. A place where
computerowners of all kinds can
participate and do what they want.
THIS is in my opinion the biggest 
reason why TP5 was bad. 

And what about the next Multimedia
events then? What about TP? If it will
be held in the future (although the
»CL0:organizers say no) it will be big, 
meaning that a lot of people will 
attend, although the partyplace
is as far from everything as you can
get. But, there'll be fewer Amiga's
and even more PC's. Most of the TP
organizers have PC's, and there aren't
many with Amiga, much less only Amiga.
Time will tell though. An Amiga only 
(and C64 ;) party would be great, and
would, if skillfully organized, bring
back the old party athmosphere, I'm
sure. When I've spoken with the TP
organizers, they tell me they need the
PC owners for the entrance money, but
that's just »CL1:plain bullshit», as they
could easily make a party with "only"
1000 attenders, all Amiga owners, and
then rent some smaller hall, etc..
They're not interested in doing it.
TP has grown so much that »CL1:it is now a
computer party, not a scene party as
it should have been», and much less an
Amiga party. Well, this might be the
past, if what the organizers state
hold true - That there will be no more
TP's.. They certainly made a
definitive closing ceremony, but one
never knows.. TP2 also had the
subtitle - The Final! So, let's see
whether there'll be a TP in the future
or not. I'll certainly miss it if not,
but I guess somebody will take
advantage of the fame of TP and
organize something equally then. As a
last note about TP6, I thought it was
a very great party, and I got the old
scene-feeling somewhat back at that
party, although PC owners were
everywhere of course..
                         »CL4:DARKHAWK/iris 