
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                                   Editorial
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by »CL5:Darkhawk »CL6:of »CL5:IRIS

»CL1:Brzzt...  Zzzhh..  Blll..  Zzzz? Ugh..
Uhh..  Is  this  thing    turned   on?
(viiiiii).. Ahh...  Yes.. (rubbing  my
eyes) »CL8:Uhmm.. Hello? Welcome? You still
alive  out  there? Everything  ok with
you? Had some  nice 6 months since the
last EC?»CL1: Why  yes,  thank  you,  I had
too! Such a  carefree time I tell you.
But now it is serious  again..  It  is
time  for  the  new  and   quite  long
awaited  issue  of  the Eurochart. So,
let me  just  pull  some  air  into my
lungs,  and  give  you   a   heartfelt







greeting.. (ahuuuff)

        »CLA: WELCOME DEAR SCENERS!

»CL1:Welcome  to  another   issue   of  the
delayed,    but      still     totally
trustworthy..... EUROCHART!

Ahh yes, I know, we have been delayed.
Roughly 1.5 months more than I counted
on, I  will  have to admit. A December
release would have been so  nice,  but
that  was  not to be. I  must take the
overall   responsibility   for   this,
naturally, and as such, I  will not be
busy  dealing  out excuses, except for
some facts to quench your fears of the
EC getting delayed yet  again  in  the
future.

»CL8:First off, the delay was not caused by
any  of  us  loosing  interest  in the
scene, us going down,  or  anything of
the sort, so we will still hang around
here  in  the  future  with   the  EC.»CL1:
Neither  is  the  delay caused by this
being the first official issue without
Depth  as  co-publishers, since we did
much and  most  of the work for the EC
on  the  last   few     issues    too.

No, that is not it,  but we ran  afoul
of the quite  usual 'missing gfx'  and
to  a  lesser  extent  'missing intro'
syndrome. »CL6: One  thing  is  that  those
responsible for this part did a lot of
promises, and moving of deadlines,»CL1: but
could  not   deliver  anyway,  another
thing is that it is my  responsibility
to make sure such things do not  delay
us. So, I  am  sorry for that,  and we
have decided  to  make some changes in
the future to stop this from happening
again. First off, you will notice that
the panels for this  issue are done by
good old Slayer/Appendix,  and indeed,
they are  RE-USED (uuuhh) from the  EC
#41, because those panels are the most
visually  stunning  we  have had for a
long time. »CL7:In  the  future,  you  will
notice  that  we  will keep our panels
for longer  stretches  at a  time than
just for one  issue. »CL1:We  will probably
keep the  same  panels for  3 issues/1
year.  And  well,  this  is  the  real
reason  for  our delay,   waiting  for
panels that is. Support  is still hard
to  force  out  of  you,   though  not
impossible, and we have a quite decent
amount of both votes and articles this
time, as I hope you will notice. Maybe
this time, you could all  send support
in without being asked, and before the
deadline  has  been  passed   for  1-2
months? Heheh, it would  surprise  me,
knowing most of you ;)

There  is one thing,  that  is new  in
this  issue,  which will  likely  make
many  of you rather  shocked, so  I'll
have to comment a bit on that. We have
no news and no adverts! What's this, a
new masterplan? Well, yes and no. Yes,
we  do  actually  think   adverts  are
getting a bit pointless, since most of
these  adverts are from  swappers, who
will never  reply to you. Thus we want
to aim on only  giving you the adverts
of  swappers that  are  actually still
alive  and active. I can refer you  to
the 'Reliable Swapper Chart' for that.
Yes,  there  are  more  swappers  than
that,  who  are  active, and thus  the
Advert    section    will    make    a
reappearence next time, though changed
in some way, so as to be more reliable
too.  We are thinking  on this. As for
news,  I  would refer you  to  Adonis'
'Newsflash'  article,  which  explains
why he  only had a very few news ready
for  this issue,  and thus decided  to
drop  the newssection for this time. I
hope    you   still   find   the    EC
informative, also without direct news,
and   rest  assured  that  this  is  a
one-of-a-kind  happening.  All  of you
who  have news, should  mail  or  send
them   to   Adonis,   and   join   his
mailinglist  for  this, so that we can
get really fresh news.


»CL8:With the total EC takeover we have now
officially commenced, it seems  that a
lot of people feel we should take some
time  to  improve the EC, »CL1: introducing
new  ideas  and  code  into  it,  more
functionality,  and  less  ugly  fonts
(yes, I sure do know most of  you hate
our fonts, thanks  for  the  feedback,
hehe), stuff like  that.  Well  I  can
happily  say   that    we    will  not
disappoint you. At least  we  have all
these nifty and lofty ideas.  We  only
need to.. Ehrr.. Take time and realize
them. »CL8:This is of  course  the  hardest
part, you know,  to  actually work. Be
that  as  it  may, in some  months, we
will  hopefully  have  redesigned  our
homepage,  especially  the EC section,»CL1:
with more  info  and a much easier way
to vote..  Both  for  you, and  for us
poor vote counters.  Therefore, if you
have Internet access,  we would prefer
that you vote at our  site.  The  next
issue of the EC will also feature some
improvements; I  could mention that it
will get a  better font of course, but
apart from that, we are not quite sure
what we will have  time to include, if
we also have to  actually  release  it
around April, as well  as  focus on MS
productions (ahh, is that not going to
be a blast  again this  year?  Looking
forward  to  meeting you there),  so I
will not guarantee any  huuuge changes
in the EC itself for next time. »CL8:I will
only promise  that  these changes will
come, and if you have  any suggestions
(as indeed, a lot of you seem to have,
nice  with  this interest, truly), you
are welcome to  share  them  with  us.»CL1:

Yes.. What more to  babble about? Mhh,
in actuality I am  kind of starting to
enjoy writing the editorial. I did not
use to  write that much in editorials,
years  ago, because  I did  not really
know  what  was  important  to  write.
Somehow, you  have this feeling of awe
when approaching your first editorial,
you  think  that  you  really  have to
write  some  important and captivating
things,  seeing  as  how the editorial
starts the whole  mag and contains the
wisdom of the main editor. »CL7:Ahh well, I
am  so  laissez  faire   now   that  I
actually begin to enjoy  just to write
my thoughts  down, without regard  for
whether  those  thoughts   are  really
'important' enough to  warrant writing
them in  an  editorial. Studying other
people's  editorial,  one    can   see
different approaches.»CL1: Telling you what
has  happened  in  the scene since the
last issue  of  the mag  seems to be a
favourite. Another  is  to  tell you a
lot about who contributed  with  stuff
for the mag, but seldom do the editors
loose this feeling  of  having to seem
extra  serious  and  engaged   in  the
editorial,  there  is still a sense of
awe  for  us  usually, in  approaching
such a column,  and  it is usually the
last article we finish, so that we can
sum  up  all  our  (potential  anyway)
thoughts. »CL7:And  also,  it  feels  quite
rewarding,  knowing  that this article
is  the  last, that  there  is no more
work  after  this,»CL1:  only   bliss  (for
approx.  2  months  anyway,  and  well
there  is   also   work    after  this
editorial,  but  you  get  my  point..
Maybe..)..   Ehh,  my   point?   There
really is  no point. I  could say  you
should  really  go  watch  (and  read,
preferably first) Lord  of  the Rings,
but now that would be illegal to write
in  an  editorial,  because  that  has
nothing to do with the scene, and this
would show that  I am not  taking this
editorial all too serious. So, I guess
I cannot  do  that..  Instead,  I will
close  this  editorial  with  relevant
stuff.

»CL7:One  should  think  it   goes  without
saying,  after  all  these  years, but
apparently there are still people  who
either  do  not care, »CL1:or try  to sneak
this  past  us, but: YOU MAY  NOT VOTE
FOR ANY OF YOUR OWN GROUPS PRODUCTIONS
OR MEMBERS!  This  goes  for  you  too
AZZARO,  I  know  you  might  honestly
think  Mawi  the  best  group  in  the
world, but it  is  still  not legal to
vote for  it  in  your  position!  And
Azzaro is not the only one. Seems like
there is a resurgence in these kind of
votes, like  you  seem to  think it is
becoming more  ok to do it these days.
»CL7:Well,  it  is not, as  long  as  those
rules are in effect , so please do not
try  to  sneak  this  past   our  vote
collectors. »CL1:No,  they  do  not seem to
discover the fact that you  cheat, and
this had the consequence that I had to
go through all  votesheets  again  and
recount  around  8 votes, where people
had voted for something  they were not
allowed to. So please, for  all of our
sakes, if you really  think this  rule
unfair, start  a  discussion  about it
here, but do not just  vote  for  your
own group and leave it at that,  it is
quite annoying.

As a  sidenote, and  this  is actually
funny  enough, I  got  around 15  fake
votes this time.  And I will  just let
you know that I  really  do appreciate
them, so you  should keep them coming!
At least when they are  blatantly easy
to spot  being fakes,  like  when  you
vote   on   our   resident   rightwing
nationalist  Pia  Kjærsgård   as  best
coder,  or  for   Darkhawk    as  best
graphician    and    best    Slideshow
('ahahah'). »CL7:This actually does make me
smile, as it did when Shane  the  Wolf
Dog tried  to get  7 almost  identical
votes  with   different    names   and
different  email  accounts   past  me.»CL1:
Well,  you  should  remember   not  to
have a static IP then, and not to send
the  votes with 1 minute between each.
Ohh well, or last time, when a certain
guy sent me 9  or so  votes with votes
for the same German  group, also  sent
in the manner  of Shane the Wolf Dog..
Now that is funny. Most  funny are the
totally  un-scenish votesheets  I get,
with votes  on fantasy  characters and
imaginary  productions. Ahh, trying to
keep  me  on  my toes, are you? (Dirty
bastards...). Hehe, no, it IS funny in
some  weird  way, so  please,  do  not
stop, as  long  as  you  also vote for
real, at least.

And  well, this  ends   it   for  now,
nothing more to add,  I will just wish
you a merry  read  now. We  have  done
what we  could  to fill up the EC with
interesting   articles,   »CL8:the   Coders
Corner is  here  again, with your ever
loveable Dr. DOOM,  and   Adonis   has
exploded in  a flurry of articles,»CL1:  in
order to please you  and make you stop
and  think  about  certain aspects. We
also  have  a  lot of guest writers in
this issue,  making  it quite diverse.
We aim to please (well,  not only, but
it sounds good). As for the chart, you
will  likely  notice  some  changes in
some  of  the ranks.  Humus2  appeared
from  nowhere  to the 3rd place on the
4k chart.  »CL7:The Puppets came  into  the
Slideshow  chart,   and   most   chart
breaking, Lapsuus swept into  the Best
Demo  chart  and  right  into the  2nd
place,  while  Reed has gone from rank
11  to  first  place  on  the Musician
chart, so  there  has  been some  wild
movements  at least..»CL1: Hope you  do not
have a  heart  attack  because  of the
sheer  excitement  of it  all..  And I
really hope  you  will decide to visit
and support the MS, which will be held
this Easter. It  has  become THE place
to be and  release stuff, and  you are
cheating yourself  of  a huge  scenish
experience if  you  miss out. »CLA:Hope  to
see you all there!
