
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                      Thoughts About the Scene and Diskmags
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by »CL5:Alvin »CL6:of »CL5:Nah-Kolor

»CL1:"Seenpoint#10, that is our  very  last
sign of life on  the Amiga scene"  but
"»CL6:Seenpoint is NOT dead!»CL1:" These are the
paradoxical words  of Fishwave/Scoopex
in Seenpoint#10, released at  the  end
of January, and  »CL6:with those words, yet
another  Amiga  diskmag  departed from
the Scene.»CL1:

»CL1:"It's much faster to write  depressing
articles",   Darkhawk/Iris   wrote  in
EuroChart#39.  In the same article, he
wrote about the  current mag situation







of our Scene today. In 1999, he wrote,
there were barely any releases at all,
except  the  Eurochart  and Seenpoint. 
Supposedly, there  were  a  number  of
mags out there but they  had shown  no
or little sign of life during the last
six months. It  was  truly depressing.

Generation departed not  long  before,
and now Seenpoint, the mag that topped
the charts  was  gone  as well (though
not dead),  leaving  the  top position
for the Eurochart since EC#40.  Who is
next?

Just as Darkhawk wrote in his article,
»CL8:Eurochart was really the only mag that
was truly active in those  days.»CL1:   All
others  had  slipped  into inactivity.
Trashcan needed (and still needs) more
support   before  its   release,   and
Phoenix  seemed  to  have    lost  its
momentum long ago  and  fell back into
the ashes it rose from.  The story was
pretty  much  the  same  for all mags.

The  situation is quite understandable
though.  As  the  Sceners  grow older,
real life intrudes increasingly  until
finally,   the   Scene   becomes   the
intruder. The  Scene  is  a nice hobby
and  being  involved  in something  so
creative  as  the  Scene  is  truly  a
privilege. However, it  cannot be more
than a hobby.  Surely,   most  Sceners
have felt  like  the  Scene  was their
l ife  at  one  time,  but  they  also
realize,  as   they   grow  older  and
finishes   their  education,  that  it
cannot be so forever. »CL7:The Scene cannot
be ones life.»CL1:

Throughout school, homework is in many
cases  abandoned  for  the sake of the
Scene. University studies tend  to  be
different though, and it seems like it
is  at  this  point  that  the  Scener
realizes that "»CL8:Hey,  there's  more  to
life than  the  Scene»CL1:"  and  begin  to
study  for  a  profession they desire,
leaving  less  and  less  time for the
Scene.

Real life cannot  be  avoided.   It is
there and  it  will take away the time
normally spent for  the  Scene.  After
all,  imagine   what    impact   being
married, going  to school  and working
all at the same time, can have on your
free  time  and   Scene  life.  It  is
devastating, as you  might understand. 
The Scene  must  give  room   for real
life,  which  it  has been doing in so
many cases  and  now  seems  to be the
scenario   for  Seenpoint#10  and  its
truly great staff as well.

»CL8:Seenpoint might be gone, but there are
plenty left.»CL1: Issue 40 of the Eurochart
was  released  just  days  before this
article was begun. Since  then  issues
41-43  have  also been released. Oepir
Risti #10  also  appeared  as well  as
Showtime #14, #15, and #16. One  bites
the  dust and  another rises  from it.
Moreover, with Devotion, there  is yet
another  quality  mag  for  you all to
read and contribute to.

»CL7:The Scene keeps rolling.  People might
leave or might  have to spend less and
less time on Scene-related activities,
but this does not mean that the end is
here.»CL1:   The show must go on, the Scene
must adapt. Do things a new way, think
differently.   Some Sceners are forced
to  leave   their   activities  behind
because  of   other  responsibilities.
The  Scene  still   has   to   go  on.
Seenpoint is gone. It  was a great mag
but what is there to cry about?  If it
returns,  great,   if   not,   support
another  mag and  help those still out
there to prosper  from  what Seenpoint
left  behind.  If  the  Scene  is   to
survive,  »CL7:we  cannot sit and cry about
people that leave and mags that close.»CL1:
No, instead we  need to leave all this
behind and support  what is out there.



        »PIC:5.iff»
