»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:               »BIG:Editorial
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL6:      by Cytron & Curt Cool/Depth

»CL4:* Cytron says:»
                                      »PIC:Raven1»
»CL0:Correct me, if I'm wrong:

»CL2:1:» It's almost spring.
»CL2:2:» The Scene is doing fine.
»CL2:3:» »CLA:The Official Eurochart» is back
   »CL9:without delay!»

»CL0:Amazing, but true, we've actually
managed to keep our deadline. We're
quite proud of this. And we're very
happy that a lot of sceners have
supported us. Ok, voting is slow as
always. Are you really too busy to
fill out a little sheet? It takes
about 15 mins (max), and there's tons
of places to send them! Hm. Anyway,
this issue is released at SymMekka'97.
Great party, BTW! 















»CL4:* Curt Cool breaks in:»
»CL0:Hiya! We're back with a new Eurochart!
This time, once again not without
trouble, but quite on time anyway.
The trouble is that a lot of votes
from the homepage was lost in
cyberspace due to a faulty
E-Mail-adress, but now that has been
corrected, and so we might even
register the votes you kindly submit
to us in this way... Of course the
making and setting up of all the nice
parts of the »CL8:Eurochart» were frantic as
usual, but still we have to thank
»CL8:Newt/Abyss^Crux» for being there for us
in a tight spot.
We believe that this is the best Depth
issue of the »CL8:Eurochart» so far, with
the gallery section booming with nice
photographs and the Eurostat being
back in the chart section. And now
that we have the homepage finally
perfected, we certainly think that
issue #30 will be even better, despite
what certain older elite pensionists
might think. But until then, enjoy
THIS issue, and remember to support us
with votes, clip-art, photographs,
modules (if you think yourself good
enough... We get quite a few of
those), articles. And of course, if
someone out there would like to code
an intro for #30, contact the editors!
»PIC:Shade3»






»CL4:*Cytron (still suffering from
IRC-illness) returns:
»CL0:Boy, have I done some hard work
finding pictures for the stats in the
internet. I must say that quite many
of the Amiga-groups have got
themselves a homepage. Some of them
are ugly (eg. Depth!), and some of
them are sensationally great (eg.
Scoopex). Still, I wonder: Are us
internetdudes loosing the picture? And
is that the reason why somebody think
that the amigascene is falling apart?
Couldn't it be, that a lot of people
are just as helpless as I was five
years ago when I entered the scene.
The newest productions I could get
hold of were two months old, and they
were hot! I could often watch some
charts, and there were major holes in
»CL0:my mind regarding the top demos: I had
never seen them, sometimes, I haven't
even heard of the group. PERHAPS,
there are a lot of sceners out there
that have lost the touch with 'us'.
Perhaps there are lot of sceners out
there that didn't buy acceleratorcard,
extra RAM, netcards, modems, and all
the other fancy stuff that has been
made for our brilliant computer.
Should we just forget them - let them
buy a PC and leave them without any
hope of realizing that the amiga was
the future? I say NO! The first step
in the right direction is this chart,
I beleive. I'm making sure that
everything runs on a standard 1200.
That's my own computer by the way. I
even compile the source on this
pityful Amiga. If we forget to be         



compatible with the past, we make the
only mistake that never hit the PCs:
Dropping a lot of people that don't
upgrade.
I have some friends that once were
active in the scene, but just went
tired of constantly have to buy
expansions to watch the newest demos.
And I understand them!
Anyway, what I was trying to say to
all the ones with modems, fancy
hardware etc:

         »BIG:Don't forget the
»SML:          »CL9:»BIG:Amigascene!


     »PIC:DrZulun1»
