»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:   »BIG:Freezers Uk was a disgrace!
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------»PIC:Shade2»
              »CL4:By Anathema

»CL4:This article is dedicated to all those
other diskmagazine who has put the
»CL8:Anathema» members name in the
memberslist of joining »CL8:Freezers»!
It was back in Mid Summer 1996 when
all this talk about the whole »CL8:Anathema»
group joined »CL8:Freezers» to set up a new
division for the Uk! Now this is the
official version of what was going on
in »CL8:Freezers Uk», Done + Supported by
All »CL8:Anathema» Members. As you have
probably guessed that »CL8:Shade of Digital»
started up this brand new division of
»CL8:Freezers» in which he had the consent
from the Polish section in 1996 to
select some of the best and well-known
people to join his forces!













Sometime in July 1996 »CL8:Shade» approached
the »CL8:Anathema» team (»CL8:Michael/Anathema»)
to join forces with him and release
their »CL6:Chip Attack 2» and »CL4:Deadlock» under
the new »CL8:Freezers» label.
»CL8:Anathema» Demo team thought it was a
good idea at first because the name of
the team was establised with the
amount of high quality demos and well
known swappers. Now »CL8:Anathema» was only
after support for »CL4:Deadlock» and support
in gfx thats all. We in »CL8:Anathema» were
not intrested in publicity from the
group name, or from it past production
they had done...We only wanted what
was best for »CL4:Deadlock» and »CL4:Chip Attack»,
for instance we wanted to see more
support for the mag and more support
for the Chip Music Disk. What people
did'nt know (this includes »CL8:Shade») was
that we in »CL8:Anathema» were unofficial
members of »CL8:Freezers», in other words,
We was still »CL8:Anathema» members and we
was only giving »CL8:Freezers» the chance to
see how things would of squared up
with this team!
»CL2:If things did turn out to be right,
then of course we would of become full
official members to »CL8:Freezers»! The
group only lasted for about month
(Well the »CL8:Anathema» members did anyway!
I am not sure about the rest of the
people who was in there, And a matter
of fact, i didn't give to toss who was
left in the group anyhow!), and we saw
full tension started within the Uk
division (For example). Bad
communication with the Uk Members, Bad
communication from Poland to the
United Kingdom and disgraceful
management within the UK!
I'll give you a full example of how
bad things was from the »CL8:Anathema»
members side of the sector! The Polish
division wanted us in the Uk to
produce and nice and effective
cracktro for them, which a team called
»CL8:Anthrox» was gonna use [Fair Enough].
So it all would of worked out like
this:

»CL4:Produced By:»
      Freezers Uk for Anthrox
»CL4:Programming By:»
      Peter "Chip Attack" /Anathema
»CL4:Graphics By:»
      Shade/Freezers
»CL4:Music Composed By:»
      Michael "One2One"/ Anathema

»CL4:By this time »CL8:Shade» had about 70% of
the Gfx done and all that was needed
was to get it coded and a soundtrack
to be added. 
»CL8:Peter "Chip Attack" Anathema» decided
to give a helping hand with this
project [So that's the coding part
sorted] and then »CL8:Michael "One2One"
Anathema» decided to give a hand on the
Music front [Sorted!] So all that was
left to be done was the Gfx to be 100%
completed! Week One passes, Week Two
passes, and a full month passed and
nothing was sorted!
The coder got so pissed off in waiting
that he decided to call »CL9:Michael of
Anathema» up and said »CL1:"Let's quit this
group and keep working under the
»CL8:Anathema» label again! This is really
nonsense Michael".»
But what people didn't know was that
»CL8:Anathema» was still alive but keeping a
low profile to see how things will
shape out in Freezers before they take
the full step across!
»PIC:Raven2»










The graphics wasn't finished, the Code
was done, and the Music was ready
within 24 hours! A phone call from
»CL8:Shade» to »CL8:Michael» accused him of making
a sub-division within the section!
As »CL8:Michael of Anathema» stated clearly
that he wanted overall control over
his production he has developed during
the »CL8:Anathema» times..»CL8:Shade» was unhappy
            at the fact that »CL8:Michael's»
            letter to him was of a
            content of saying your lot
            and my lot! This makes it
            more clearer that »CL8:Michael»
            was surely uncertain about
            the group future and where
            it was heading. With
            already 1 cancelled
            production to their name,
            »CL8:Michael» felt it was of
best of nature to consult with his 3
programmers to and see what they
thought of »CL8:Freezers!» The case from all
3 programmers was overwhelmingly said
to be of "»CL3:No Confidence"».
By this time »CL8:Michael» took swift action
to »CL9:quit» »CL8:Freezers» and to »CL9:build up»
»CL8:Anathema» once more! 
Apparantly, »CL8:Dive» (another Coder) was
doing some demo for »CL8:Freezers» and again
it was a case of no communications
between the Members in the Uk. Let me
give you the Communications set up on
how it looked like.

»CL4:           Memberslist of Freezers Uk (With Unofficial Members):
»CL0:       Shade   - Artist & Organiser  »CL5:(Official Member)»
       Michael - Musician & Designer »CL4:(Unofficial Member) = Anathema Member»
       Outspan - Programmer          »CL4:(Unofficial Member) = Anathema Member»
       Peter   - Programmer          »CL4:(Unofficial Member) = Anathema Member»
       Simon   - Programmer          »CL4:(Unofficial Member) = Anathema Member»
       Dive    - Programmer          »CL5:(Official Member)»
       Nemesis - Modem/Mail Trader   »CL5:(Official Member)»


























»CL2:                          The Communication setup:
        »CL8:Michael»  was in contact with »CL8:Peter, Simon, Outspan, Shade, Nemesis»
        »CL8:Outspan»  was in contact with »CL8:Michael, Peter, Simon»
        »CL8:Simon»    was in contact with »CL8:Peter, Outspan and Michael»
        »CL8:Nemessis» was in contact with »CL8:Michael and Shade»
        »CL8:Peter»    was in contact with »CL8:Outspan, Simon, Michael»
        »CL8:Shade»    was in contact with »CL8:Michael, Nemesis, Dive»
        »CL8:Dive»     was in contact with »CL8:Shade»

»CL0:If you cant see the link here, Then
you're »CL9:stupid!» Don't you see that all
»CL8:Anathema» members are in touch
(»CL8:Michael, Outspan, Peter, Simon»)! So
»CL8:Shade» was right after all, in saying
that »CL8:Michael» was making a Sub-division
eh? [»CL4:So what! I was only looking after
the intrest of my productions and my
members! -Mike/Anathema»]
»CL8:Michael» and his »CL8:Anathema» members
re-joined »CL8:Anathema» without giving









notice to »CL8:Shade» nor any other members
that was in »CL8:Freezers»! The change
happend within 24hours and »CL8:Michael» was
glad to be back in his own team. 
But more trouble happend after »CL8:Michael»
and his coders left! Apparantly, »CL8:Shade»
was accused of steeling a member from
»CL8:Eltech» (»CL8:Orion» - Coder) and this made
»CL8:Mic-Flair» (Manager of »CL8:Eltech») not
pleased at all, infact »CL8:Mic-Flair» wrote
a letter to »CL8:Shade» telling him to get a
life: »CL1:"...go and find your own coders!"»
This was the final blow for »CL8:Shade» it
seems. As after this incident happend,
»CL8:Shade» decided to quit the scene
altogether. But 95 percent of the Uk
people thought that shade left because
of what »CL8:Mic-Flair» said in his letter.
»CL8:Shade» decided to pass the management
over to »CL8:Nemesis» and make him try his
best re-vamp the Uk sector! But
obviously, »CL8:Nemesis» looks like he will
have a hard job doing this as all
»CL8:Anathema» people left, »CL8:Dive» dissapeared
into thin air, and now »CL8:Shade» quits
the scene! It seems »CL8:Nemesis» will have
a big struggle in getting members
again!
»CL2:So for all those other magazines out
there who has in their News part about
»CL8:Anathema» joined »CL8:Freezers»! This is
totally and utter rubbish, and has
been condemed by »CL8:Peter» as "»CLA:Nonsense»"!
People like »CL8:Technix», »CL8:Wade», »CL8:Dark» know
what »CL8:Michael» was up to, and he also
told them that a trial basis of one
month will see if this group lives or
die? And »CL8:Michael» was right to get out
before the ship has sunk and left him
groupless!
The Polish sector of »CL8:Freezers» was
fine, But if they did know what was
going on in the Uk, then I think
»CL8:Shade», »CL8:Nemesis» and »CL8:Dive» would've been
kicked out for sure!
The leader from Poland division gave
»CL8:Shade» a little task to complete
(Cracktro) and that was made into a
piece of cockup from start to end (But
there was no end?..) It just shows how
the organisation was just a shambles
in the Uk, and »CL8:Anathema» Members (»CL8:Mike»,
»CL8:Peter», »CL8:Simon», »CL8:Outspan») just sat back
and basically see this happening and
dropped out without a note to anyone!
With firm commitments and dedicated
members, would of seen »CL8:Freezers Uk» to
be well known! But all we got was some
bone idle people not dedicated to get
production out, But just to live off
the name »CL8:Freezers» and to boast to
others about it! Well, »CL8:Anathema» now
states clearly that »CL6:it had nothing to
do» with »CL8:Freezers Uk», and I think that
the »CL8:Polish» division should've stayed
with their two divisions (in Poland.+
Sweden...), and now there names are
being dragged through the dirt not for
good reasons, but for stupid reasons,
and for things which are not worth
even discussing! And i hope this comes
as a reminder to anyone who sets up a
division which has a Uk sector in
it..Always find out about their
previous history and get'em to send an
example of their work to you as well!
You can call it..We in »CL8:Anathema» were
working FOR »CL8:Freezers Uk». But calling
us members of »CL8:Freezers Uk» was a
understatement of the year really!
Also the Swedish division of »CL8:Anathema»
knew what was going on, but they kept
silent to see if we were gonna make
the big switch! To summon up »CL8:Freezers
Uk» would be? A nice group with
friendly members, BUT let down by bad
Uk management and incompetent organi-
sation of the team! No structure in
developing ideas.
          »CL9:(C)1997 Anathema.
       All Rights are Reserved»
»CL0:Michael Summary Comments:

It was a case of getting your priority
right! And I am afraid to say that
»CL8:Freezers Uk» never. Just say that we
»CL9:had» joined »CL8:Freezers» 100%. Look at the
amount of changes we would of have to
do. For instance, »CL4:Chip Attack 2»
pictures and logos (I dont think
»CL8:Boo/Talent» & »CL8:Jade» would've been happy)
secondly, »CL4:Deadlock Magazine»! »CL8:Shade»
was reluctant in helping with the Gfx,
And it was a case of contacting
overseas division for help, and this
is where time consuming come into it!
The way how I see it, is everyone
should've been helping and that wasn't
the case at all. All we had to our
name, or shall I say or them had to
their name was? One cancelled Intro, a
person going around writing texts on
the bbs over hyping the team, an
artist sleeping on two jobs, a divided
sector within the Uk division, no
information, No planning and lastly no
communication! 
I will be of course writing my own
judgement about »CL8:Freezers Uk» in the
next »CL8:Deadlock!» This article was a
»CL1:joint venture» between all »CL8:Anathema»
members, and has been approved by
myself (»CL8:Michael»)! 
