»CL9:--------------------------------  »PIC:DrZulu2» 
»CL8:            »BIG:Tricktrax
»SML:    - Main organizer in Puzzle
»CL9:-------------------------------- 

»CL4:During the latest months, the
average Dansish scener (and
others as well, I guess) has
probably noticed that »CL8:Puzzle» has
suddenly gotten hold of some
of the very best coders in
Denmark. Names like »CL8:Blueberry
of Efreet» - one of the makers of
»CL5:Peanut» (that won the 4K-intro
compo at »CL5:TP6»), »CL8:Powdihacker
of Ambrosia» - the main coder
behind the promising doom-clone
'»CL5:Genetic Species»' have
suddenly joined forces in »CL8:Puzzle»
to make a major breakthrough in




















a somewhat declining Danish scene
(in Denmark, many people remember the
good old days of »CL8:Anarchy», »CL8:Melon.»,
»CL8:Kefrens», »CL8:Rednex» etc.).
I grabbed hold of the organizer of
»CL8:Puzzle», »CL8:Tricktrax», to hear
what this was all about. 

»CL4:Interviewer», »CL8:Cytron/Depth» (»CL9:C»)
»CL6:Interviewed», »CL8:Tricktrax/Puzzle» (»CL9:T»)

»CL4:C: How come, that Puzzle suddenly
grabs hold of so many talented members
from the scene? Are you having major
plans, or do you suffer from
megalomanina :-) ?
»CL6:T: Well, because many members were
going more or less inactive and »CL8:Puzzle»
seemed to be dying slowly, I decided
to clean out the memberlist and find
out who really wanted to do some
serious work for the »CL9:Amiga». That left
us with only a few good coders and as
everybody knows groups need coders.
Without being arrogant, I think I can
say that »CL8:Puzzle» is one of Denmark's
best groups, so it wasn't really hard
to get some of the best Danish sceners
to join. I just asked them politely
and they accepted. :) Hopefully we can
get the DK scene going again.
Currently we have plans for a demo and
a musicdisk, but we are always working
for future projects. We are still
looking for new members, preferrably
Danes, but we will not grow much
bigger than we are now.
»CL4:C: Great, that's really lovely to
hear. I also like your selfesteem! But
tell me, how do you see the Danish
scene now? Will there be any
competition? Or do you feel that all
of the Danish elitecoders are now
gathered in »CL8:Puzzle» - sort of like »CL8:TBL»
with their graphicians?
»CL6:T: Selfesteem is good, arrogancy is
not. Well, the Danish scene now is not
nearly as big as it was when I started
with Amiga. Many old groups are very
silent without being proclaimed dead,
but I don't think we'll hear much from
them again. »CL8:Impact DK» left the »CL9:amiga»
which I think was a huge loss, and
there aren't many big new groups.
However, one has to be careful not to
overlook the new groups. There is a
number of up-and-comming new groups
and some of their members are going to
be very good, I think. About the
competition, I think it is much easier
to keep going if there's someone you
have to be better than. That is
probably one of the best motivations
you can get. As a group I don't think
there's much competition for »CL8:Puzzle» in
DK (yet), but as individuals there's
plenty of competition for us in DK,
so... But I think I better keep my
head a bit low in case we should be
beaten by newcomers in the near
future. :)
»CL4:C: Of course. You just never know!
Well, I think that you've given me
some extremely good answers, so I'll
end my questioning here!»

»CL0:And to all of you out there, read more
about the changes in »CL8:Puzzle» in the
Euronews.
