disc.font,10
«»
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»«ac»
«c2»WITH LOONIES TOWARDS THE TOP!«»
«»«al»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»«as»
«c5»THE PAST AND THE GENESIS«»
«»
«c7»Loonies is a small danish group which got founded in June 1995 by
«c6»Psycho, Tiny and Tarmslyng. «c7»In the beginning they only created
«c6»Livitas Productions «c7»which they describe as crazy, weird and absurd.
Infact, both intros released the first year; «c6»Da Intet Skete
and Spor 2 Blå Trappe, «c7»were Livitas Productions. Spor 2 Blå Trappe
was by the way released at the Party 5 but only reached the 30th place
in the competition. Also in 1996 «c6»Loonies «c7»continued to produce these
strange productions. At the «c6»South-Sealand «c7»party they released an 64kb intro
and a bit later that year they made the first and last 4k intro, called
«c6»Aflyseren. «c7»It's not worth having a look at.«»
«»
It was not before in 1997 the first non-Livitas production got out. It
was an 40k Intro called «c6»Travellers «c7»released at the Heaven I party, and it
actually won too. As many Loonies productions, also Travellers got a theme.
And personally I like the intro quite much because it got an extremely
fast tunnel no matter what amiga you may run it on. At the same party Loonies also
released their first demo called «c6»Demostop, «c7»but it was more like an intro
really. It's a boring conversation which the watcher is urged to stop!
However, the first real demo got out later that year, at the Party 7.
It was called «c6»Goatraince, «c7»and came 10th in the competition. The demo got
amazingly 22 routines and of course an overall theme. Various trains and
railways are in focus. It also offers some fast tunnels, and some weird
texts. Earlier that
year, Loonies released another Livitas Production though, it was the follow
up to «c6»Spor 2 Blå Trappe «c7»and won the 40k intro competition at Heaven II.
It had many different effects.
The first musicdisk with a fitting name, «c6»Lunatic Sounds, «c7»also got released
in 1997. It was a Livitas production and contained some weird danish text
in addition to the modules.«»
«»
«c5»KEEPING UP APPEARANCES«»
«»
«c7»Loonies continued being active in 1998. At the «c6»Scene Meeting «c7»they released
a production named «c6»27+1. «c7»It can best be described as an intro slideshow.
At the same party they also released a 18 parts demo called «c6»Mental Brain
Disorder «c7»which came second in the demo competition. As 27+1 had a message
to Depth, it was only natural that Loonies were given the mission to make
an intro for the «c6»EuroChart. «c7»And they did make an intro for issue 35.
Pyscho had been extremely
active being the coder behind all productions so far. But he got help with
the intro for The Party 8. «c6»The Morning Trip «c7»is the first production I think
also BlueBerry participated with, and it came second in the competition.
It's a very good intro worth to have a look at. At the same party a demo called
«c6»Julemandens Sidste Ferie «c7»got out. It's a small demo mainly consisting of
pictures, and of course we can describe it as another Livitas Production.
Anyway, 1998 was a year when Loonies got more attention in the scene.«»
«»
«c5»THE BREAKTHROUGH«»
«»
«c7»In 1999 Loonies were releasing several «c6»high-quality productions. «c7»First out
was another cooperation between the coders, it was another demo. «c6»Valhalla
«c7»finally got out at the «c6»Icing'99 party «c7»after a delay. However, the four parts
demo was pretty good with lots of animated 3D. This time the theme was the
Norse Mythology, and the voters liked it so much that it won the party.
In the summer, at The Scene Meeting, Loonies released two Livitas Productions.
Both intros were about sheep. «c6»The Sheep Dictionary «c7»won the competition and
the «c6»Sheep Recognizer «c7»came third. Both intros are funny, but no masterpieces
for sure.«»
«»
At the Party 9, two more quality productions got released. First the
musicdisk «c6»SuperDrug «c7»which is quite special. It's only 64k but contain
9 techno modules (goa, trance, acid) and lots of rotation effects in the
background. Even though I don't like techno music, the musicdisk is impressive
because of the sound calculator. The other production, was the intro «c6»Impossible.
«c7»It "only" came third but is actually good despite of the lack of design.
The intro was done by both BlueBerry and Psycho.«»
«»
«c5»SWEET SUCCESS«»
«»
«c7»Last year was one successful ride for the Loonies. Winning one party
after another. It started off with winning the intro competition at TRSAC 00
with the 64k named «c6»Radomized Sheep. «c7»No need to say it was another Livitas
Production really. Not very long after, at the MekkaSymposium 2k, Loonies
presented an awesome demo! It's certainly their best demo so far and has been
on the lips of every scener last year. «c6»Cybercinematastic «c7»is a themetic demo
about various Hollywood movies coded by both BlueBerry and Psycho.
It's HUGE and certainly crushed the competitors. I especially like The
Abyss part, but I'm sure other people have other favourites.
At summertime it was
another Scene Meeting, and Loonies were present as usual. This time they
released the small but fast demo which captivated the audience... it's
called «c6»Arla. «c7»The first few seconds I expected a pretty bad demo, but after
a few more seconds I really liked it. The music fits perfectly to the various
moments. The last Loonies production so far, is another small demo. «c6»At The
Movies «c7»got released at the TRSAC 00.5 party in November. This Loonies production
also got a theme, and this time it's a silent movie from the 1920's featuring
Charlie Chaplin as the main character. Of course this production also won.«»
«»
And now, Loonies have become one of the very «c6»best «c7»international scene-groups!«»
«»
«»
«c5»THE FUTURE«»
«»
«c7»Nowadays Loonies are a bunch of young Danish sceners, and most of them
are getting a higher-education. The coders are studying computer science or
programming 
at the University, one of the graphicians is studying graphics, web & multimedia
design, and others are studying medicine and electronics and so on. But
hopefully these talented sceners will continue making «c6»high quality productions.
«c7»And continue making productions with an «c6»overall idea or theme «c7»which they like
so much.«»
«»
As many other groups Loonies decided not to be presented at The Party 2000
as so many other groups. The entire Danish scene decided to boycott TP
because of the votesystem and the high entry fee. Loonies tell us that TP
always has been some kind of lottery due the low vote count. Anyway, the real
«c6»party atmosphere disappeared «c7»many years ago. Nevertheless, the graphicians
sent a few pictures to compete in the competitions. Read results elsewhere
in «c6»D.I.S.C.«»
«»
«c7»However, Loonies are planning to release the follow up to the Impossible intro.
But this time the intro will get an overall design, and the new engine
is said to be around 50% faster. Perhaps it will be released at the next
TRSAC, at MekkaSymposium or later on. Anyway, it's more certain that
Loonies will release another «c6»big demo «c7»at the «c6»MekkaSymposium. «c7»So watch out
for it!«»
«»
Loonies are also planning to release the sample engine used in Impossible
and Superdrug. The generator TB4bc could be used by musicians and not for
coders as the playersource itself won't be released.«»
«»
In addition to that I'm sure more high quality intros and demos will
be released the next years. Perhaps they will be «c6»crazy, weird and absurd, «c7»but
then again... they're all just a bunch of loonies.«»
«c7»Current Memberslist:«»
«»
«c6»Bifrost   (Graphician)«»
Booster   (Coder & Musician)«»
BlueBerry (Coder)«»
farfar    (Graphician & Music)«»
fasix     (Graphician & HTML)«»
Laika     (3D & Graphician)«»
Psycho    (Coder & Organizer)«»
Tarmslyng (Musician & Design)«»
«»
«»
«»
«e»

