discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»KINDERGARDEN 2017-16
-SEEN BY CREW AND ORGANIZERS«»
«»
«c1»«ac»By Dran/Contraz^Gods«»
«»
«c7»«as»On request from «c6»Zerox/Gods «c7»I've written this article about the «c6»Kindergarden 2017-16 party «c7»which took 
place right outside Oslo in November 2001.  Others have probably written reviews about KG already but
not seen from the eyes of the «c6»organizers and crew.  «c7»This is my first article for a diskmag ever so bear 
with me as I don't know much about the art of articlewriting :-)  Also note that I might remember some 
things wrong since I sometimes was really tired during KG :-)«»
«»
«c6»«al»First, the crewlist:«»
«»
Pinocchio/Contraz     - Organizer«»
Storeulv/Contraz      - Organizer«»
«»
BinaryF/Contraz       - Compocrew«»
Chauple/Contraz       - Compocrew«»
Concrete/Contraz      - Compocrew«»
Dran/Contraz^Gods     - Compo and web/networkcrew«»
«»
Baffle/Delirium^Royal - Web/networkcrew«»
Brekke/Contraz        - Web/networkcrew«»
Enex/Contraz          - Web/networkcrew«»
«»
Arcane/Haujobb        - Other crew«»
Phlaton/Contraz       - Other crew«»
«»
«c2»«ac»Preparing«»
«»
«c7»«as»Already in August we started to plan another KG.  Back then, the plan was to arrange KG in October at 
«c6»Hellerud «c7»(in Oslo) as in 2000 but we had a problem.  The rent was raised dramaticly (from about 4000
-> 10000 NOK) so we just couldn't afford it. We had to find another location. Some of the first KG parties 
were held at a place called «c6»Haga, «c7»just outside Oslo.  We thought that going «c6»"back to the roots" «c7»would 
be kind of cool, the rent was cheap and there would be no janitor or police showing up to check for
smoking or drinking people.  In Norway, smoking (normal cigarettes in addtion to weed :-)) and drinking is not
allowed at school areas even in nighttime when no pupils and teachers are there. A problem with the 
locations at Haga was that it wasn't free for hire before 9th of November so KG had to be postponed. 
But it didn't really matter too much.  At least we got more time to plan and prepare the party. But this extra
time was unfortunatly wasted since we all have "normal" lives in addition to the scene and we were a bit lazy.
Actually none of us went to check out the locations until the last week before KG, and we discovered some bad 
things.  The hall was not as good as we remembered.  There was no kitchen, no place for sleeping, no showers
and no room to show movies in.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»The day before KG«»
«»
«c7»«as»We already had experienced some let downs but more was yet to come.  The night before KG we still lacked
money for rent, projector, and cars for transporting our gear.  Thanks to some helpful friends we 
managed to get hold of all the things we needed.  But we lacked another thing: «c6»a registration and voting
system.  «c7»Our plan was to use ZEPO which is used by several known parties like TP and TG.  But ZEPO is 
a complex system and the machine we tried to install it on just would not cooperate so we had to ditch
the plan and do the same as the year before.  Make our own system.  Unfortunately we did not have the
system from last year since the harddrive it was located on had crashed and the files could not be recovered.
So «c6»Enex/Contraz «c7»spent lots of time coding a new one the night before KG. This was only the registration 
part.  The voting part was made during the party.  More about that later.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»The first night«»
«»
«c7»«as»Concrete, Chauple and myself arrived at the partyplace around 19:00. Pinocchio, Enex, BinaryF and 
Storeulv had arrived earlier in the day. There were also some visitors present.  Among them, people from 
«c6»Razor 1911, Loonies, Depth and Squirrelz «c7»(if I remember correct).  We just tried to rig up our equipment
as fast as possible and then started to feel the partymood coming on.  Later more and more people showed
up.  Now you might wonder what we did about the lack of kitchen, sleepingplaces and showers.... well
there was a small room which we used as a kitchen.  We got hold of a microwave owen and it was just big
enough to fry pizzas in (and with good results. No wet n sloppy pizzas).  Sleeping was mostly done 
downstairs (the downstairs floor is actually a kindergarden :-) ) even though it wasn't allowed 
according to the rent contract.  The only things we couldn't get was a movieroom and showers. But it 
seemed people survived anyway and we didn't really notice any stench during the party :-) There 
wasn't any special events the first night.  Only the scenequiz and a demoshow. At about 05:00 «c6»Enex, Chauple, 
Mermaid/Scoopex^Creators and myself «c7»was really tired and we found no place to sleep so we took the 
chance and drove home in my car, in the middle of the night (or should I say morning?). It was a really
insane thing to do as I was soooo tired.  But I didn't fall asleep so we survived :-)  When we were back in Oslo
we all went to our homes to sleep.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»The second day:«»
«»
«c7»«as»Oh boy, did I sleep!  When I woke up it was 15:00 in the day and I felt real bad. After a shower and eating
some good food I felt better and called Chauple.  After a while I got a phonecall from «c6»Brekke/Contraz.
«c7»He was wondering where «c6»I, Chauple and Enex «c7»were hiding and he explained that Pinocchio and Storeulv also were
gone. I felt a bit bad since we had completely forgotten to tell the others we went home to sleep.
Fortunately Brekke was there and Phlaton had also arrived.  Where «c6»Pinocchio and Storeulv «c7»were hiding we never
really found out, but they showed up later that evening :-) Me and Chauple drove up to the partyplace 
without Mermaid and Enex.  Mermaid had gone back to KG by herself and Enex was still sleeping like a rock
so he didn't answer his phone when we called to tell him we were going back to the partyplace.  Anyway he got
back by own means later.  When all of us were gathered again there was time to start with the compowork. That 
turned out to be even more pain than last year. Concrete and myself were responsible for receiving and 
registering the contributions, except that there was no place to register them.  We just had to write a textfile.
But somehow, we managed to leave out some entries and they were never shown. A big sorry to those who got their
entries forgotten.«»
«»
«»
«»
«c6»«ac»The compos«»
«»
«c7»«as»Before starting the compos we let «c6»Duck-hunter/Spaceballs «c7»and his band "Next life" enter the stage and play their
kickass concert.  It wasn't exactly the standard-commercial-pop type of music or any typical type of music we're
used to in the demoscene.  It was fast and real hardcore with electric guitars and stuff, but it kicked ass and 
was well received by the audience.  When the concert was finished (some time around midnight if I remember it right)
we started the compos and the first one was ascii gfx.  We were about 2 hours late
because of various reasons. The ascii compo went ok.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»Musical trouble«»
«»
«c7»«as»Then it was time for «c6»4channel music.  «c7»Now the problems started.  Suddenly only 2 of the channels could be
heard.  Something was wrong with the amplifier. And we didn't notice it before a while since we sat behind the 
speakers and could not hear much else than bass.  Some of the participants got a bit upset so we though it was 
only fair to play the tunes a second time when we had fixed the problem with the amplifier.  The next compo was 
high quality music.  And even more problems to come.  The compomachine was Concrete's A4000 and he had a Repulse
soundcard installed.  Normally it worked fine but now it just wouldn't play any sound.  We just had to change back
to the good old Paula chip.  But then we got too low mixingfrequenzy (22khz) and some of the tunes sounded horrible.
But we could not boost the Khz since Concrete did not have any tools to do it etc... to put a long story short we
just had to stick to «c6»Paula at 22Khz «c7»though we once again upset the poor musicians.  But another thing happened:  
Phlaton was going down from the stage and by accident he tripped on the powercable and pulled it out.  Since too 
much equipment was connected to this cable almost all fuses in the hall blew when he put the cable back in. We had
experienced some powerfailures earlier at KG but this time it was really hard to get the power back.  We found a way
to solve the problem and after a break the compo started again and this time we finished without any more trouble.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»Gfx«»
«»
«c7»«as»The graphics compoes were maybe the ones that ran smoothest. But we used unacceptable long time to prepare for
it.  We decided to show the «c6»graphics on PC «c7»since the next compo after gfx was the PC 64k compo and to avoid 
even more problems with Concrete's A4000. Transfering the files to PC went ok, but we had to unpack all the archives
and sort the pictures. This took a while. We started the compo and fortunately no problems occured.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»Demos and intros«»
«»
«c7»«as»First off was the PC 64K compo but because of too few entries it was «c6»combined «c7»with the PC demo compo.  It was
a total of 4 entries.  One of the entries caused some problems since it would not run. We tried several times
to run it and we even tried with the PC owned by the author of the entry but even
there it failed so we
had no other choice than to disqualify it.  Next up was the Amiga 4k, 64k and demo compoes. These were also
combined because of too few entries. The Amiga compo ran without problems.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»Wilder and wilder«»
«»
«c7»«as»To everybodys surprise the wildcompo was the largest one at KG this year.  Normally at KG this compo has been
dropped or there's been very few entries.  The time was now about 4 in the morning and we didn't exactly feel
like start showing the wildcompo, meaning guaranteed more hardware trouble and other unexpected things...
There was a total of «c6»12 entries, «c7»and it would have been even more if it wasn't for the fact that we "lost"
some of the entries. Don't ask us how :-). There was great diversity among the entries. We had everything from the
usual more or less funny homevideos and animations to demos on C64 and Gameboy Advance and there was even some tunes
for Nokia cellphones :-).  The compo was long and hard for the compocrew. At the end we were totally apathic and
some of us had already left and went to sleep.  So had a majority of the visitors. I think the compos was over
around 08:00 in the morning.  Some of the visitors were then about to leave for home.  But, CRISIS! The votesystem 
was not finished yet, even though Enex had worked on it like hell all night and morning. Ever more time passed before
the few remaining people could vote and not before around 16:00 were we able to present the results and give away 
some prizes.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»The last day«»
«»
«c7»«as»One of the less cool things about organizing a party is «c6»cleaning up «c7»after it's all over.  Fortunatly there wasn't
too much to clean up but we were all so tired I'm sure we only worked at a fraction of our normal speed.
We were ready to leave around 20:00. Now I just had to drive home and then I could surrender myself to the sleep.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»Disqualified or requalified?«»
«»
«c7»«as»Some of you might have noticed that in some resultlists floating around on the internet it says that the 64K intro
from «c6»PH-ENT «c7»was disqualified since it was released at another party.  The comporules at KG forbid rereleasing.
A few days after KG the compocrew received some tips that this intro was previously released and since PH-ENT
(or "3 Amigos" as they also called themselves) before was caught cheating at TG 2001, we had no trouble believing
they had tried again.  As the saying goes... «c6»"Once a thief, always a thief".  «c7»Just replace the word thief with cheat.
We disqualified them.  But it was real stupid of us not to check that the intros actually were alike.  It turned out
they in fact were different products (though they looked quite similar and almost had identical titles).  Of course 
the people in PH-ENT got very upset about us disqualifying them. We decided to say sorry and reenter them in the
results.  Just for the record, they have explained themselves about the fuzz at TG2001 (in Jurassicpack #08) so it
seems they didn't cheat after all.«»
«»
«c6»«ac»Conclusion«»
«»
«c7»«as»Even though it was a rather tough weekend we all had «c6»a lot of fun «c7»as organizers and crew.  And the response we
have gotten back has been positive except for a few comments about the compos of course :-)
We are definitly considering to hold another «c6»KG in 2002.  «c7»Hope to see you all there.  We'll try to do our best
to be better prepared and avoid all of the fuckups that happened last year.«»
«»
«e»
