disc.font,9
«ac»«»
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«c2»*** THE HISTORY OF THE SCENE AND THE AMIGA - PART III ***«»
«»
             - The Last Years!«»
«»«as»
«c6»IT'S CONTINUED FROM ABOVE! USE THE BUTTONS TO READ ABOUT THE REST!«»
«»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»
«c6»1995 «c7»was a bit strange when it comes to the amiga scene. Some of the best
groups faded away during this year; like Sanity, Andromeda, Razor 1911,
Polka Brothers and at the end, The Silents. Perhaps they didn't all die
officially, but after 1995 I don't think any of the groups released
anything special. These are all legendary groups which had dominated the
scene the previous years. The various software companies really attracted
lots of talented sceners, and a depressive attitude arrived among some sceners.«»
«»
However, let's take a look at some of the most important events that year.«»
I think it was the first year the Symposium party in Germany got arranged.
And a group which later on would influence the scene greatly, made its
debut there. Artwork had lots of talented and respected sceners, like Tron
and Virgill to mention a few. They released the demo Greenday, and won the
competition ahead of Sanity which Tron just recently had left. Anyway,
Greenday offers some cool music, a texture mapped cube which
is rotating and zooming with mirrors, 
a landscape routine, phong, a fast tunnel, goraud thorus, animations and some more.
It was quite a nice first release of Artwork. Sanity however, released
their new version of Roots at that party, and came second in the compo.
The new version was not much different from the first one, but offers at
least some new gfx. But after my taste, not better. Anyway, it's quite
big and got lots of effects. The morph-effect is quite cool. At the same
party some ok intros got out too, like Boom by Lego and Florx by Bizarre
Arts. Who knew that Symposium parties later on would become the BEST party?«»
«»
At other parties at the same time, some more good productions got out.
At the Gathering party, the demo Deep by Parallax and Cncd got presented.
It's a very short demo actually, but it was definately one of the best demos
in 1995. It starts with a routine I find a bit psychedelic. And continues
with many small routines, like a very cool and colourful tunnel with
objects inside, a strange and special 'doom' landscape, some goraud objects,
vector world etc. The routine I like the most, in addition to the tunnel,
is a transparent cube displayed in front of a cool dolphin picture. This
demo deserved to win. The strange part was that it only got 3 more points
than the demo which came second. That demo by Avalon had a good design, but
not much to offer at all. All routines were old.
Also The Black Lotus released a demo there. Lots
of coders were present at the party, but the demo wasn't very good I'm
afraid. It got many routines, but mostly old ones. I like the fast tunnel
though. The gfx was not good either. Anyway, the year after
TBL released a great demo. You could almost believe it was a totally
different crew. At this party however, a few ok intros got out. They were not
really good, but at least got something to offer. Like Wormhole by
Spaceballs which won the party. No doubt that it was the best one.
Spaceballs also came second by their Last Finger intro which was done by
Major Asshole with the help of a new Spaceballs member: Slummy. Slummy
became much better later on. The intro itself got quite many routines, but
nothing extraordinary. The most important with this intro, was the message
by Major Asshole to the software companies and that Slummy got his debut.
Slummy has ever since been the coding force of Spaceballs. Also Complex
released an ok intro there.«»
«»
Anyway, TG 95 was a disaster. Real bad organizing, and only half of the
amount of sceners as the previous year. The reason for this, was that TG'95
was held in another part of the country and by other organizers than
before. They were unexperienced, and the location made it hard for sceners
to come from Sweden for instance. The good things that came out of this
party, were the demo Deep and a 4k intro named Babenoice by Lone Starr of
Spaceballs. The 4k is really great, and the best 4k presented until then.
It got an awesome crunching routine by the way. Of course it won the party.
Well, this year was the start of the real downfall of The Gathering. We
all thought the 1994 party was bad, but compared to TG95 and later parties,
it was really great! Because in 1994 and the year before, the party was
dominated by amiga sceners. Later on, PC people were in majority. I'm not
talking about PC sceners, but gamers.«»
At the Assembly party that summer, a few very good productions were
presented. I would say both the demos and intros were better than the ones
released at the Eastern parties. First I'll write a few words about the
demos. ZIF by Parallax offers alot of cool effects. It has some picture
waving, a blurring parallax logo, phong-shading, strange spiral twister,
a very cool face which impressed many, a very nice texturemapped Glass
mirror, a cool WW bobble object which was a great effect then, a tunnel and
some strange torouses moving and transforming, to mention the main effects
of this demo. This was more than enough to impress the audience and win the
competition. Pygme Projects also competed with another demo, it's called
Logic. This demo also offers a lot of routines and is quite good after my
opinion. It came second. The third demo is also good, and made by Stellar!
It has a logo in 3d, a cool object, landscape and more.
But I like the 4th demo better. It's infact the last demo I ever saw from
the legendary Silents! The demo is called Fruitkitchen and works on a
standard A1200. Only the music is enough to run the demo... it got one of
the best demo modules ever after my opinion. The demo opens with a
landscape routine while showing the credits. Already now we know that the
design will be good. It kind of copies some of the Nexus 7 routines and
music, like while showing their version of the 'disco-ball'. It offers
some cool vector worlds, a doom-tunnel, and a great light reflection
routine to mention some of the effects. I really like this demo. Too bad
I never saw the promised follow-up demo Blood Kitchen! The Silents faded
away...   Many intros also got out at Assembly. I think they are much
better than the ones at TG and Symposium. Especially the two Sonik Clique
intros are good. The winner intro FAD had some cool objects which were
moving back and forward in natural motion. It had many phong-donuts,
tranforming, and a good fire effect. Sonik also came third, with the intro
Blur. It had some phong-shaded torouses, a kind of twister routine and blurred
goraud. Quite good! Also Hauki was good, some others were quite good too.«»
«»
At the GASP party that summer, some good demos and many ok intros were
released. One good demo was the Control demo by Oxygene. Later that year,
they released an even better demo at The Party. However, the 040 and better
processors wont get much pleasure out of Control I'm afarid. Others will
be able to watch an enjoyable demo. X-Orgams by Syndrome is worth to have
a look at as well. There were also many intros presented at this party. They
were quite ok, but not amazing. The winner intro by DreamDealers didn't
include many routines, only some agricol blur and a doom-routine.
Personally I like other intros better. Take a look at them.«»
«»
Also at other parties some ok demos got out, like at the Somwhere in
Holland party. Melon Design released two demos, Baygon and Planet M.
I think Baygon is quite ok, it came second. Also Planet M, which won, is ok
after my opinion. But some sceners at that time didn't like them at all,
and were saying that Melon Dezign was going down. At the same party Axis
released their Picture Book! I think also this party offered some ok
intros, like Rose and Siesta.«»
«»
This year Scoopex presented another demo, and many well-known sceners
even today participated; like Antibyte, Made, Absurd and Laxical. The
demo is called Alien, and have quite some routines; torous inside torous,
rootating and zooming cube, a stress-routine, blurred morphed skull,
goraud cube, cool colour pallettes etc. The demo got released at the
Abduction party, and came second. The winner demo was done by Stellar.
It's called Human Excrement. It starts off with moving in a texturemapped
landscape, then some of the same objects as in the intro FAD by Sonik Clique
appears. And afterwards, some really great objetcs are being showed. But
it's a short demo after my opinion, and I prefer Alien.«» 
«»
The best productions this year, were released at the Party. The best demo
without any doubt, was Closer by Cncd. Not many months earlier, the coding
duo Juliet & Case had delivered a pretty good demo at The Assembly party
called C42. But they're appearance at The Party brought them a lot more
success. Closer feature environment mapping, picture waving, very
impressive bump mapping, 3d shading using a new kind of reflection with light
accumalation, some light balls where the reflection hit our eyes, some
new shading, textured wrapping, rotating landscape with white fog,
evnmapped tunnel, strange spirals and the best bump mapping made so far;
a moving light on a rough coloured surface. Watch it! Also some of the
other demos were quite good, like Vision by Oxygene. It got a cool
introduction, phong shaded torous, twister, many great objects in a vector world, many ordinary
filled vectors, some picture movements, environment mapping and reflection,
goraud objects etc. I guess the routines which impressed many people were
the spaceship race on a vector track and especially the running man inside
the building trying to reach an exit before the door closes. The bad thing
about this demo, is that it doesn't work on 040 processors or higher. What
to say: degrade! ;)  Also the short demo by Virtual Dreams was good.
Faktory at least offers some 3d environment mapped objects, sphere
distorsions and a bumpmapped plasma-effect.«»
«» 
Anyway, some real impressive work was shown in an intro. I'm not talking
about the 40k intros, but the 4k intro by Artwork called Dawn! It offers
alot more than almost all 40k intros released until that point in history.
Azure did a great job with implending blurred text, multiple pallettes,
flexible object creator, phong shading, moving light source, environment
mapping, env glenz motion blur, motion blurred env mapped object morphing,
some very simple highfield mapping with depthshading (voxelspace), 2 new
and fast routines in fullscreen 2x2 pixels. And it also got a good design.
It's simply great! As for the 40k intros, they were not that impressive.
Creep by Polka Brothers and Artwork had some of the same routines as in
Dawn, and some flexible torus with a good bump mapping routine. It also had
the picture movement routine. This was more than enough to win. The intro
which came third, was Free Your Mind by Scoopex. It had environment mapped
3d routines. There's a impressive routine when a hand is trying to exit
from a wall. Anyway, the intro that came second offered some phong torus,
blurred cubes and fire zoom. It's called Headcase and done by Axis.«»
«»
Other good demos this year were Lech by Freezers. It got real speed,
good code by Sputnik and good music by Beethoven. It offers many routines,
like some cities; one futuristic and one gouraud shaded, gourad pulse,
lightened texturemapped objects, very cool doom-landscape, plasma objects,
and lightsourced torus inside tourus to mention a few. Also Impossible
by Mystic is a good demo. It got released at the Primavera party I think.
At Virtual
Conspiracy C-lous released a small demo called Omen. It got some cool
routines, like a glass goraud glass, big torus, tunnel, spiral gaurad
twist etc. C-Lous also released another small demo called Masque at the
Compushere party. It got some great objects. You can have a look at the
winner demo also, its from Craze. But its not that good after my opinion.
Pulp is also a demo from 1995, done by Movement. Its quite ok too. The
same are Passengers by 3 Little Elks, Zoombie by Union, Crazy Sexy Cool by Essence and Falukorv
by Razor 1991 and perhaps Future by Gods. As for other ok intros, Malta
intro by Essence, On the rush by Melting Pot, Pulsion by Silicon, Herb
by Polka Brothers and of course quite many others released at Assembly and
The Party.«»
«»
In any case, when it comes to effects fractals were out, dot landscapes too,
and you didn't see many demos with ordinary filled vectors. This year
every demo had to include texturemapping with some zooming and rotating.
Also picture movements, env mapping, some phongs, tunnels, landscapes,
goraud objects, blurred objects; like torouses and really all kind of torouses,
various shadings, reflections and mirrors, morph effects, twisters, various
city-routines, voxelspace and some bump mapping.«»
«»
One of a few good slideshows this year was SUN by TRSI. It was done by Lazur. He
had begun get noticed in 1994, but got alot more attention in 1995. Also
Artcore by Scoopex was great. It was done by Made/Bomb. Bridgeclaw/Gods
presented the slideshow A Few Good Men, and along with the other slideshows
mentioned, it hit the charts. Fiver/TRSI and then Artwork, released a nice
slideshow too, named HoneyComb. Cyberspace got released by Anadune.
These got to be the best slideshows in 1995.«»
«»
As for musicdisks, there were quite a few good ones. I especially remember
DreamWalker by Freezers. It was really good with music from Dreamer. Also
Memorial Songs II from Razor 1911 featuring music from Lizardking was
great. Chorus and Sid presented their Crossroads under the Jewels label.
I also have to mention the musicdisk called Infection released by Mystic.
The songs were composed by Xtd!«»
«»
In the mag world many good things happened. After my opinion 1995 was the
best mag year ever! Well, also 1994 was great! Anyway, RAW, ROM and
Upstream were the best mags around. Also D.I.S.C. came back to produce one
great issue. Other good mags that year, were The Charts, Gedan and
SeenPoint. But many things happened; Upstream faded away as the team split.
Cesium quit and after a while wanted to support D.I.S.C. and Wolfman didn't
have the energy to continue on his own even though Mount had joined the
forces. Rumours were saying that Excel was taking over, but he failed to
release one single issue. Lord Helmet quit as main.ed of RAW after years
with success, and Astro took over. ROM under the command of MOP was rising.
The Charts got in trouble at the end of the year, but continued the next
year as ShowTime. The EuroChart was in more trouble, and didn't manage
to release more than issue 27 at the very beginning of the year. Depth took
over in 1996 and continued the famous chart. D.I.S.C. got in trouble again
because of some missing graphics etc. and no one got to see another issue
before NOW!!! Propaganda faded away too, just like Abnormalia.«»
«»
The ruling packs were all made by TRSI; NeverMind, It and Speed! And IRIS
continued their A Pack Of Fun with some success.«»
«»
The best groups this year, got to be Parallax and Cncd, along with groups
like Virtual Dreams, Oxygene, Stellar, Freezers, Scoopex, Artwork,
Polka Brothers, Pygmy Projects, The Silents and perhaps Melon Design,
C-Lous, TRSI, Spaceballs and Bomb. However, groups like Sanity and
Andromeda were still ruling the charts. It always take quite some time
before the changes reflect in the various charts around.«»
«»
Some of the best coders were Juliet and Case, Debug Simply, Sputnik, Oxbab,
Alien, Touchstone, Azure, Tron, Antibyte, Crack, Origo, and Ninja to
mention a few. However, according to the charts coders like Dr.Skull,
Gengis, Chaos, Merge, Dr.Jekyll, Airwalk etc. were the most popular.«»
«»
As for graphicians, there were many good ones. But there wasn't a ruler
anymore. The charts told us that Fairfax, Ra, Facet, Cougar, Peachy,
Fade One, R.W.O, Devilstar, Suny, Lazur and Danny were the most popular.
However, the ones that really presented some great work that year in real
productions and winning parties etc, were Made/Bomb for his work presented
in the slideshow Artcore for instance and result at some parties.
Bridgeclaw/Gods for his work in various Gods productions, the slideshow
A Few Good Men and winning the Gathering.  Lazur/TRSI for his great
graphics in various TRSI productions, compos and the slideshow Sun.
Facet/VD for his gfx at compos and in Virtual Dreams productions. R.W.O.
for his compo pictures (like winning the south-sealand party),
and work in a few Balance productions. Some claim
they were scanns though. Fiver for his slideshow HoneyComb and results in
compos, Danny and Rodney for various good competition pictures, like at
The Party, both Artifec/Complex and Jogi/MellowChips did good with
compo-pics too, Decker/Andromeda also did good in competitions, T0F too
at various parties, just like Reward/Complex and Yoga/Freezers, JCS and
Lowlife were some others that did good this year.«»
«»
When it comes to musicians, Dreamer did very good. His musicdisk was a
success and he also did some other great modules for compos (like Somewhere
in Holland) and in
productions. Lizardking also did good at compos and released the great
Memorial Songs II. Extend (Xtd) enjoyed some success aswell. He won at the
Primavera party and released a musicdisk. Chrorus and Sid managed to
release a great musicdisk this year too. Other musicians that did good
were Chromag, Virgill, Jazz, Oxide, Groo, Scortia, Unreal, Hollywood and last, but not
least.. Skorpik. At the charts muscians like Jogeir, Moby, Jester, Chromag,
Heatbeat, Lizardking, Xtd, Dreamer, Dizzy, Mr.Man, Chorus&Sid and Virgill
dominated.«»
«»
Some popular swappers were Norby, Mr.King, QBA (all TRSI) and
Steffen/Speedy... of course lots of others too.«»
«»
After reading about 1995, you may get the impression that this was a very
good scene year with lots of quality productions? If so, you're wrong.
After my opinion 1995 was one of the worst years ever. The optimism was
gone, many real talented sceners and groups faded away. Many had began
working in various software companies, especially many Scandinavians.
And there were not many high quality productions this year. The mag scene
was in change too. And the news about the Amiga were real depressing and
confusing. However, some new promising groups got born too.«»
1995 was the year of texture and environment mapping, phongs, gauraud and blur.
And trackmos were definately on the way out, as HD-installable productions
were favoured. I haven't seen many trackmos after 1995 anyway.«»
«»
In «c6»1996 «c7»some new hardware arrived. It was the A4000/060. It had 6 MB RAM
as standard, and of course a 68060 processor. It costed around 2000 pounds.«»
«»
As for the scene, it was again rising. As 1995 didn't bring many quality
productions, 1996 was the complete opposite. Alot of groups presented
really great work. The scene had again gotten some new groups to look up
to, as they had looked up to groups like Sanity, Andromeda, The Silents,
Spaceballs etc. in the past. Now the names TBL and Artwork were on the lips
of every scener... and a group called Mellow Chips was providing lots of
good productions.«»
«»
This year many good demos and intros got out at various parties, and the
scene really seemed to be alive and kicking.«»
«»
First lets have a look at the traditional Gathering party which was a total
disaster the previous year. It was moved back to the eastern parts of
Norway, and Crusaders was again arranging it. TBL which had delivered a
pretty weak demo in 1995, shocked the scene with an awesome demo. I dare to
say it is one of the 5 best demos ever presented so far in the scene
history. The demo Tint featured lots of impressive routines, great graphics
and design, in addition to cool music and good part-links. It crushed the competitors, and also
the PC demos weren't even close to competing with it. Better processors and
RAM couldn't help them. As for the Tint demo itself, it's quite fast even
on weaker machines (28Mhz 4mb fast). The routines featured are; truecolour
chunky, 256 colour chunky, 3d-phong and bumpmapped objects, phong mapped
tunnel, valley voxelscape, texture mapped glass phong, Image plasma mix,
3d-twirl, wave mapping and reflection mapping, double lightsourced
texturemapping and ordinary texture mapped tunnel to mention a few. The most
impressive effects were the environment mapped face, the bump &
texturemapped phong fish, the evn mapped over Rodney's picture, the
electric tunnel at the end and the env.mapped & phong shaded hand with tbl
tatoo. This is just ONE great demo which lasts about 11 minutes, and during
that time we get to see 4-5 quality pictures in addition to never get bored
of all the great effects. The demo that came second, was made by an old
norwegian team called Triumph. It's called Dreamscape. It's far away from
the quality of Tint. But if offers one gigantic raytracing-performance
including phong shading and lots of massive objects with shadows. The
massive pyramid part is quite cool and reminds me a bit of Desert Dreams,
hehe... Anyway, its nice to watch when entering the pyramids, and going
outside again. We follow some spaceships (with shadows) for instance, and
gets to see some explosions. Anyway, the best part of this demo is
definately the music!!! The rest of the demos presented at this party
aren't worth mentioning really. Spaceballs, Contraz, Ephidrena nor any
other groups presented anything decent.«»
«»
It's better to have a look at the intros. Stellar presented an intro called
Lights! It's actually quite cool and include some nice routines, like
an evn.mapped tunnel, a cool wave-routine and a very nice money-effect with
phong shading. I had a dream... ;)  I also enjoy the short, but very nice
intro from Essence. It offers some cool music, picture waving, env.mapped
torous, blurr, tranforming torouses and another cool object from chess,
which is transforming and they have mirrors. The background is nice too.
The third intro was made by C-Lous called Mixed Emotions. It has some pic
waving, a great object and env.mapping if I remember correctly, etc.
Also some great 4ks got released at the Gathering. Again they were presented
by TBL. The winner done by Gizmo/TBL is really great. It has blurr,
torous, colour sparkling, landscape, torus in a tunnel etc. The one by
Equalizer/TBL got a tunnel, phong shading and a landscape.«»
«»
Lets move over to some other parties and productions. The Assembly party
had lots of very good demos. Except from the winner Tint at TG, I guess
most of the demos at the Assembly would have beaten the rest from TG.
The winner at Assembly with LOTS of more votes than the runner up, was the
demo Sumea by Virtual Dreams/Fairlight. It starts with a blurr effect,
and then... WOW! A great tunnel is being showed, and out of nowhere a very
cool camera appears. The screen is zoomed and the earth appears. Its really
great! The rest...? Well, check it out yourself!!! I do fear that the start
may be an anim, but who cares? It's really fantastic. Another of my all
time favourite top 50 demos is Dim by Mellow Chips. It offers lots of great
routines. And I think everything is displayed in HAM-8. It features a small
story about a spaceship, adding some blurr and various effects. It got a
landscape with light reflections, we get to see the spaceship in a tunnel.
And when fired at the spaceship we get to see the glow going through the
tunnel. As demo is a bit inspired by Terminator 2, we get to see an evn.
mapped phong shaded alien! Dim also offers a massive vector world routine,
with a bubble and a foetus inside. In addition to that, we get to see a
good fire effect with Termintor appearing. Some animation. And at the end,
a really great texture mapped city with blurr and reflection of light
effects. The only thing I don't like with this demo, is the commercial
break. It kinda interrupts in a great demonstration.«»
«»
After the great Tint demo, TBL had released a demo at the Icing party
and they also showed up at Assembly to present another
good demo; Goa.
Its a bit psychelic and starts off with a tunnel like
effect (env.mapped). We also get to see a bump-mapped tunnel, massive
vectors, some great pictures, some seastar objects, 4 balls with faces
and stuff... and lots of effects I can't comment. Its quite good, but weak
compared to Tint of course. At the 4th place, a demo called Traffic by the
members of Mystic in Finland + a good picture from Lazur. It got a cool
money-effect, massive objects phongshaded with reflections. A tunnel,
a spaceship, landscape etc. Quite good. Limited Edition gave the audience
MindAbuse. A small demo with a fast tunnel transforming into a twister,
some cool objects (like a key), phong, transparent glass, transforming
objects etc. The last demo I'll comment from this party, was a demo which
I think should have been ranked alot higher in the competition. Its called
Cyberia and done by Scoopex in coop with Bomb! It offers lots and lots of
routines, like; transparent cube with mirror, goraud shading, evn.mappings
with phong, lots of cool objects, phong objects, twister, light reflection,
massive objects, a cool effect which I think is an animation, a blinking
eye in a cube (just like in 9 Fingers), face, hand & animal out of wall
env.mapp. routine, nice pictures from Made, picture waving, twin mapping
phong, lightsourced object, bump etc. How this demo only managed to come
5th, I dont really know. The face and hand out of wall-effect is quite
impressive. Just watch it!«»
«»
While the demos were great, I can't say the same about the intros I'm
afraid, so I wont write too much about them. As last year, Sonik C.
presented the winner, and this time its called Pure. It smashed the competitors. 
I think it got some evironment mappings, and generally lots of colours!
Lots of colours seem to come out of a ball, they are changing the pallette,
and a BIG env.mapped object appears. Then there's perhaps some more colours
in a colour landscape or something. Actually I think it's a bit boring, but
ok. The Royal intro I can't remember, and the Japani intro was pure shit.
Just a bad animation. How it reached the third place is unknown. The intro
from C-Lous is quite ok though, but very short. It got some env.mapping,
some torouses, tunnel and landscape.«»
«»
Ok, I'll comment some more demos from other parties instead. At the Symposium
Artwork presented a great demo called The Gate, and it also won the party.
It has real speed and features a great landscape routine, some zoom and
rotating rooutines, lots of objects, a very cool face-effect, a bumb
tunnel, lots of massive objects; like face out of cube, transforming donut,
voxel and more. One great demo. I can't say the other demos were of the
same quality. But the demo JamJam by Incal has some value. It got zooming/
rotating, tunnel effect/plasma zoom?, landscape, lots of phongs,
a texture mapped kind of "doom" effect with lots of ripped graphics from
sceners like Cougar and Ra to mention a few. It also has ripped music. And
a texture mapped cube. The intros were better, especially the Dawm Remix
by Artwork, but also No Love from Syndrome is ok.«»
«»
At the Icing party, TBL presented the demo Glow. Many of the routines
remind me of the ones in Tint. Anyway, it offers some massive env.mapping,
a strange spaceship, some light reflections etc. The beginning seems to be
a bit starwars inspired? There are lots of various objects, bump mapping,
blur, transparent transforming cube, tunnels etc. It only came second in
the competition. The winner was presented by 3 Little Elks. It offers a
real fast routine with dancing elks! ;)  Objects, light reflections and
the same effect concerning the face as in The Gate by Artwork. However,
I think Glow should have won... Nevertheless, they won the intro
competition with the intro Mind The Carrot II which is good.«»
«»
At the Remedy party TBL released yet another demo, this time it was called
Darkside. And I dont think it has the same standard as the other TBL demos
this year. Its a bit different as it has some text included, and a very
cool transparent man. It also offers like a twister effect, picture waving,
tunnel, man on the top of a planet and some other effects. It was the best
demo without doubt. The second demo was not worth watching, it only
included a rotating object (landscape) with phong shading and a weird
tunnel. The worst production from C-Lous that year. The rest of the demos
were even worse. The best intro was also provided by TBL, and called
Tractorbeam.«»
«»
At the Abduction party some cool productions got out, like the demo
Cybogirl2 from Jeskola. And Mellow Chips presented the demo Severed.
Its kinda special as it has a medieval theme. We get to see a castle in
the background while sword and shield objects are being displayed
(texture mapped) and listening to a techno-inspired tune. Many pictures
are being shown, a face out of wall-effect and last a texture mapped axe
and a head cut off with some blood. Quite cool.«»
«»
There were two Saturne parties in 1996, and at the first one lots of
pretty good demos were released. The winner was called Atome and done by
Skarla. It got some ordinary filled vectors in a huge vector world.
Some very BIG phong shaded objects, many goraud shaded objects, a face
routine as in the Gate from Artwork, chess object in transforming torous
with mirror etc. Quite good demo! I can also mention the intro Little Flow
by Abyss. Its nice. At the other Saturne party that year, many more good
demos got out, like Hardcore by Syndrome, Fraction by Gods and Mind
Traveller by Limited Edition. There were some ok intros too. Check it out.«»
«»
There were also two Demolition parties that year, and the best productions
were presented at the last one. Especially the demo from Mellow Chips
called Divine is GREAT! It offers alot of various routines, like
evn.mapping, phong, tunnel etc. Check it out, as its one of the better
productions that year. I also have to mention Profusion by Articifial
people as a good intro.«»
«»
Another party that year with good productions were the South-Sealand party.
It had a good demo called Chronic done by Passion, and another good one
by Ambrosia called RiverHouse. It features a very good landscape routine,
a tunnel, twister effects and some other various good effects etc. Also the
music is good. Some of the intros were good too, like Phi from Artwork!
It got speed, great env.mapped objects, some BIG phong shaded objects,
kinda landscape routines, tranforming objects etc. The winner was done by
Rebels. It has many routines... like env.mapped phong shaded torous,
some gouraud shaded balls etc. Quite good.«»
«»
Also the Scene Meeting had a good demo. It was Nude by Puzzle. It has a
tranforming phong shaded torous, a kinda plasma-effect, bumpphong,
zooming/rotating, tunnel, env.mapping and some BIG objects! Good!«»
«»
Anyway, lets move over to a party with stunning releases! Yes, at the
Intel Outside 3 party some awesome demos got released. It was too bad
the best demos here didn't get more attention than they did this year. 
The best demo was called Muscles and done by Impulse. It has lots of
great objects, like a TV, airplane, hammer etc. including routines as
env.mappings, phong shading, bump and more. It got some fast effects as
the processor with the GREAT head being displayed. The transforming man
was also very impressive... and all other massive objects. The end effect
is also memorable... the dolpins jumping up of the sea. It's simply a
masterpiece of a demo, one of the greatest that year for sure. One you
definately shouldn't miss... Anyway, also the demo by Floppy was good.
It was called Embraced! It has lots of good routines, like env.mapping,
phong shading, goraud objects, lots of various tunnels, bump mapping,
twister and much more. Just have a look at the cool objects like the face
and cat. Also the intros presented by Floppy were good.«»
«»
Also another party held in Poland had some good releases. At the Polish
Summer party Scum presented a good demo. It had some zooming/rotating,
BIG object, a texturemapped and phongshaded tunnel, a texturemapped
gouraud city with motion blur, landscape, fire effect while showing the
credits, realtime raytracing, twister with phong, phongshaded torous with
rotating/zooming background, bumpmapping, a few good pictures and more.
Check out Utmost Vacancy yourself.
Anadune have us the demo Sunrise, which is quite special too. It got good
music and gfx. Some real nice animations in the beginning, and a nice
design overall. It got a 'psycehelic' effect with lots of cubes appearing.
It got bump-mapping, a very cool 'eye' effect, some twisting objects with
mirror, a kind of backwards tunnel effect and more. Quite a nice demo!
Eurotica presented Eurotica - The demo, its quite ok too. It got goraud
shaded objects, lots of cubes with various effects, phong shaded torous
and much more. The winner intro Full Flavour by Venture was quite ok also.
It has a phong-shaded heart and other objects, landscape etc.«»
Also some good productions got released at the Gravity party. Right now
I can't remember which ones though. But I think Venus Art for instance
released their good Zero Gravity demo there.«»
«»
As usual some good productions also got released at The Party, but compared
to the very best demos from The Gathering, Assembly and Intel Outside,
I don't think the best demos at The Party could compete. However, lets
look at the winner demo from Bomb: Shaft 7. It got some great pictures,
A man which comes and goes in all parts of the demo, a massive
texturemapped vector world, a cool greetings part, great phong mapping,
env.bump etc. Its without no doubt a good demo, but I had expected even
more from the winner of The Party. Second came demo from another famous
crew, Essence. The demo is called Makaveli and have some massive objects!
It got speed, some env.mapping, phong shading, gouraud, blur, a twister
which turns into a tunnel and some
zooming/rotating. I really like some of the BIG objects, like the rabit
and the moon. Quite a cool demo, but it only got half of the votes as the
winner. The demo Endolymfa by Balance also did good, mainly because of the
good design. TRSI presented yet
another demo at TP, and this time it was TwinPeaks. It got some nice music
and ok pictures. It includes some bumpmapping, texturemapped phong, voxel
etc.«» 
«»
As for the intros, I can't say they were impressive either. Oxyron won
the competition with their Phongfree intro. It's a doom landscape with
lots of various 3D objects inside, like torous, a fire effect, lens flare,
light sourceing, transparency etc.  But it's
not very special. Scoopex came second with their second Zero Gravity intro
in the trilogy. It got lots of big vectors. The intro from Smoke had some
original effects. Some other intros were ok too, like Damn by Abyss. It got
ripped sources from Azure inside, and was made as a joke. It has a few
great transparent torouses and other transforming objects which blurs...
etc. The more impressive intro, is the 4k intro called Peanut. It was done
by Efreet!«»
«»
Some other ok demos this year were Dimension by MG Design, BornDead by
Syndrome, Burning Chrome by Haujobb, Stick With Me/Mongolian Prods,
Resistance 2/Odbyt Design, Xtc/Floppy, Worlds/Gods, Misery/Zenon,
Insane/Extend, Jees/Mellow Chips, Phonky/Craze, Domination/Contraz
and probably many more.
Some more intros; Deep pan/Efreet, Short/Floppy, Decay/Session,
Hope3/Cirion etc.«» 
The most popular EFFECTS this year, were texturemapping,
environmentmapping (more than last year) bumpmapping, phongshading, voxel,
blur, reflection mapping,
transperancy, twister, lightsourcing, mapped mirrors, various tunnels and face-effects,
wolfcubes etc. And it was popular to have BIG objects.«»
«»
Many slideshows got out this year, and I'll mention some of the best ones.
The best without no doubt, was Wild by Anadune/Nah-Kolor. It got lots
of great pictures made by Lazur. I can't be much wrong when I say that this
slideshow still today is considered to be the best... at least it will be
on any top 3 rankings. Other good slideshows this year were Efrafa/Artwork
with gfx from Fiver, Eternal/Scum with gfx from PickPok, The
Sketchbook/Puzzle with gfx from Dechard, Spaceman/RamJam with gfx from
N/Joy and Exposure by IRIS with gfx from Bandy.«»
«»
Also a few good musicdisks got released in 1996, like Moments from
Nah-Kolor with music from Muffler and Dreamer. VirgillDreams was another
musicdisk made by Essence featuring... Virgill. Surprise! Other musicdisks
were SoundGarden by Anadune with music from Revisq and BlurredNotes with
music from The Loop/Artwork.«»
«»
In the diskmag world some sad things happened. RAW finally died in the
summer time as the new main-editor sold his amiga. An issue with a few
articles had been put online a week earlier or so, but nothing at all from
the new main.ed. Instead there were 4 articles with the old main.ed Lord
Helmet in coop with me, a few from Magic and some others. As D.I.S.C. was
asleep, and Upstream also had faded away the previous year, the new ruler
was ROM! Other mags were Generation, ShowTime, SeenPoint, No Sense,
Jurassic Pack, Rage and Gedan to mention the best ones.«»
«»
The coders that year got to be Offa and Equalizer, Azure, Alien, Braindead,
Eft, Oxbab, Jamie, Ben, Touchstone, Scout, Boogeyman, Zig, Blueberry,
Powdihacker, Antibyte and a few others I've probably forgotten.«»
«»
The best graphicians were Lazur, Danny, Louie, Rodney, Made, Facet, Fame,
Dechard, Rendall, Tenshu, Kazik, Fiver, Gfx-twins, Destop, Beast, Jogi, HP,
JCS, Bridgeclaw etc. This is because they either did good in the various
competitions, made alot of gfx in various productions and/or got ranked
high at the charts.«»
«»
Some of the most popular musicians were Virgill, Azazel, Dreamer, Revisq,
Scorpik, The Loop, Muffler, Deelite, Curt Cool, Jazz, Tricktrax, Dizzy etc.
because of doing good at various competitions, having good musicdisks or had
modules in many productions, and the usual people at the charts as Jogeir,
Groo, Lizardking, Heatbeat, Chromag, Xtd, Moby and more.«»
«»
Some of the most popular swappers were Case78, Qba, Splatterhead, Trasher,
Noodle, Candyman and Gandy. And the best packs around were Speed, Kickdown,
It, LunchPack, King Pack and some others.«»
«»
In 1996 you could still see the
best demos, like Tint, Muscles, DIM, Shaft 7 on a 020/28Mhz 4MB Fast. But
it was impossible to see a few productions which required more RAM and
better processor power. In any case, this year brought the scene some of
the best productions ever and there were really lots of productions getting
released. And this year it was obvious that not only productions from the
western-countries deserved to get lots of respect and high rankings!«»
«»
1996 was the year of some of the best productions ever, with env.mapping,
bumpmapping, phongshading and lots of 3d objects dominating the
productions.«»
«»
As I've already written TOO much about the latest years, I'll try to make
less comments about the productions the very last years. I guess most
sceners have been here the last 4-5 years anyway. Instead I'll just mention
the productions and events I think are the most important.«»
«»
«c6»1997 «c7»continued with mainly the same effects as in 1996, and lots of more
good productions got released. As usual the latest years, most productions
got released at the various parties, and especially the best ones. Perhaps
the productions didn't improve from the previous year, but certainly many
productions were of the same high quality.«»
«»
At the Gathering for instance, there were alot of people present, but not
many amiga sceners anymore. The party was totally dominated by PC gamers.
However, the amiga groups present released alot of great productions.
Nevertheless, there were about no releases outside the competitions.
Anyway, TBL once again presented a great demo which got double as many
votes as the nearest competitior. Captured Dreams doesn't have as many
routines or last as long as Tint, but it's surely impressive. And again,
all TBL releases work on machines with only 4mb of fast! The beginning
of the demo is a bit like the one in Nexus 7 by Andromeda. We then get to
see a very detailed tunnel while the credits are being showed. There's a
cool zoom of the Captured Dreams picture which turns into a light tunnel
and zoom out of the eye again. There's a cool 'doom' landscape. The
"dolphin effect" in natural motion with reflections in the glass impressed many
in the audience at the Gathering party. There's also a very good texture
mapped Dinosaur object. Another effect is the transforming lightballs,
and a very cool underwater effect with bubbles and waves. There's also a
tunnel like effect with lightballs, and some great objects displayed on
a moving background. The house object with bats(?) flying around is also
cool. And of course the great picture which also won the gfx competition
have to be mentioned. All together it's nearly 8 minutes of joy!«»
«»
The second demo was presented by Artwork, and it was also very good like
so many other demos at TG this year. Last year there were only 1 good,
but this year there were perhaps 10 good ones. Anyway, Exit Planet Dust
by Artwork was the only demo that actually could give TBL some competition.
It has a planet object with reflections. Some great and massive env.mapped
objects and some cool tunnels to mention some of the routines. There's an impressive
effect with a man etc. There's a also a nice Fiver picture. Anyway, I
really like this demo because of all the very good objects.«»
Other good demos from this party were Deus Ex Machine by Limited Edition,
Eclipse from the old norwegian team Triumph and perhaps some parts of Energy
from Gods. There were also some others by quite some famous teams around.
As for the intros, they were not up to the same standard as the demos.«»
«»
Also the Symposium party had many great demos, and also some good intros.
Artwork made a demo at the party with the leftovers from Exit Planet Dust,
and managed to present the winner; MegaDemo IV! As the TG demo, this demo
also features some great env.mapped/flatline objects. It also has some
tunnels, a lightsourced texturemapped cube, a cool face-morph effect, bump,
a particles-effect, some env.mapped phong shaded objects, landsape with
light, a cool pyramid object etc. A quite good demo! Arsenic also presented
a good demo at Mekka Symposium, which was close to beat Artwork. However,
Fear Factory only came second in front of Essence. Thug Life by Essence
starts off with a good police car 3d object with mirror on the ground. We
go inside with a building with texture mapped walls and various effects.
The demo also offers some great env.mapped objects, a cool colourful
tunnel, a nice greets part etc. There were also some other good demos there
presented by Scoopex, Eleven 11, Oxyron, Drifters etc.«»
«»
Opposite of the gathering, Symposium had a few good intros. Especially the
4k intro Extel by Ambrosia and Abyss in Wonderland were good. As for the
64k intros, Abyss made a good one called Diskobox and Impulse also
presented a good intro. Capsule made the intro Changing which is also good.«»
«»
At Assembly more good productions got out. There were perhaps not as many
good demos as the previous year, but at least some of the ones released
were of high quality. The winner was presented by the english crew Nerve
Axis, and called Pulse. And it was absoutely among the best demos released
so far that year, with a nice concept including good code and gfx and good
partlinks. It begins with two coloured logos blurred into screen, then
some impressive explosions start in the
background and its whiping the logo away.
The  music  starts  and  the title is shown with a lensflare effect.  Different
kinds  of mapped  twirls  follow.
The  last  one which looks like a cloudy sky turns out to be the
background  for lens circles (transparent bubbles) running slowly upwards.
Then the  background  transforms into a three-sphere tunnel. The entire screen
freezes  and  zoom-rotates  away and  another three spheres tunnel runs
with some new illumination effects using dramatic horizontal and diagonal lightning.
A picture of a fish rotates in, and after a while the picture disappears and the
next effect starts.  A 3D parallax bitmapped  flatscape  with  both floor and
ceiling with stripes of light making its way away from the screen. 
Then a very cool routine appears. Its an underwater 3D landscape with good
camera movements. We're slowly being showed around a wreckage of an old
ship. There's also a light reflection effect. The next effect brings
combined  env. mapping and bump mapping.
A logo follows with some background light effect.
We also get to see a good phong object etc. Then a very impressive a watersurface
effect with a boat running on it appears, followed by a magnetic-particle
storm. Other effects are a blurshaded polygone ball, and another
watersurface effect. We get to see a bumpmapped and lightsourced
face-effect. And at the end, a great landscape routine. One great demo
which deserved to win and it did! It got almost double as many votes as the
demo which came second.«»
«»
The demo which came second was presented by Puzzle, and called Zoo! And the
obvious theme is animals which appear in some pictures and effects. It
includes some good music and nice coding. We get to see a BIG env.mapped
torus object with goraud phongshading, a picture waving routine, big
transparent 3d. evn.mapped objects, cool 3d env.mapped phongshaded heart,
impressive transparent cube (glasstiger), star-object, big bumpmapped and
phongshaded stuff, tunnel with lights, cool objectdistorted elephant,
mapped torus inside torus and objects inside which are texturemapped and
phongshaded. Quite cool demo!«»
«»
I'll also add a few words about the third demo in the competition. It
was named Casting and made by Embassy. It starts off with a cool light
effect. Light streams through the holes of the letters in the logo Casting.
Then a nice env.mapped 'BY' object appears. We also get to see a cool
transparent text.mapped object and a nice picture waving routine. More
effects are a great fire/light effect out of text.mapped object, a blur
credits part, a bumpmapped tunnel etc. It's a nice demo.«»
«»
Anadune also presented a demo at Assembly this year. It was called Zoom.
It got another big env.mapped and phongshaded object. A kinda twister,
a mushroom object, massive vector worlds etc. I like the underwater part
with the submarine. There are also a nice tunnel, a text.mapped city with
a cool road and more. And then there was another twister tunnel. In any
case, an ok demo. The demo Timeout presented at the party was ok too.«»
«»
Tbe intro competition and the voting I don't really understand much of
however. The winner 64k intro was made by Limbo (as a comeback production),
and intro called 911 won with almost twize as many votes as the runner up.
What's 911 all about? It's quite a special intro as I guess there are not
many others similar. Its an original idea and its like an animation. It got
no music, but sound effects. Anyway, it continues for ages...  and is quite
boring after a while. How did intro managed to win, I surely can't
understand. The second intro was made by Scoopex, and called Zero Gravity
III. It probably deserved to come second or maybe first. It starts with the
Scoopex logo which zooms and streches, we get to see some massive
env.mapped objects, like the Scoopex sign (star-logo) which appears in all
the productions, and a big castle. The intro has nice camera movements and nice textures.
The music fits too. The bump carpet is good also. Its nice to see the other
Scoopex logo also with lights pass behind it. Good intro! The third intro
was made by Mystic and called FAT! It got env.mapped objects, strange
tunnel etc. Why it got the third place, I don't know. The 4th intro was
called and made With Style by Haujobb. It got good design and good music.
A zoomed Haujobb logo, twirls and textures. The 4th intro I also have to
mention. How this intro came 4th is hard to say? Anyway, Nah-Kolor
presented The Prophecy. The intro features bumpmapped tunnel, bumped
rotazoom, raycasted tunnel with lightsource and realtime morphing, a water-
routine, another env.mapped object etc. This intro should have won, or at
least come second!«»
«»
At Abduction this year, a few ok demos got out. Like the Broken Promises
demo from Zenon, Out Of Spice by Kinky and Flop by Dual Crew-Shining.
Anyway, I'll just write a few words about the winning intro by Haujobb
called Awekening! It got good music, bump, great env.mapped object,
tunnel and another evn.mapped object etc. Quite good intro! The intro
Phorce from Scoopex was quite good too.«»
«»
At another small party, Bizarre 97, another small but quite ok demo got
out. It's called Session and made by Oops. It only has 4 effects, but
they are quite nice. It got a cool water drip effect with lightsourcing,
a colourful tunnel, another water-effect and a small pixel effect at the
end.«»
«»
There were also lots of other small parties arranged this year, just as
the previous years. And at some of those parties a good demo or two good
out. This was the case at the Demolition party. MellowChips, now a subgroup
of TRSI, presented the demo Dose there in the combined PC and Amiga demo competition. It came
second after a PC demo by Haujobb. It starts of with the credits being
showed in a storm of animated clouds and from its inner dust, the names zoom in
one after another. Then we get to see a rendered Mellow Chips logo. The
first effect in this demo is a object rotating over a dark blue background.
The  next  effect is a golden female body which
rotates  and  zooms  over  another blueish background; environmental
mapped  and  illuminated  by four seperate lightsources which is quite
good. Then we get to see another vectorworld, 'doom' alike.
In the middle of the room we find a transparent
object  which  deforms  the background in its shape. And then a picture
appear, and afterwards another vectorworld!
Next  follows  a  female torso walking in 3D-robotmotion over the screen, which
itself consists of a huge zoomrotating eye in the background. Up next is
a bumpmapped head with a strong-red texture comes in and is
effected by three or four lightsources. And afterwards followes a 
huge bumpmapped morphing ball effect, zooming in and closing off the
viewer. Quite cool. Then the logo Dose appear and an end scroller! Another
good MellowChips demo has been released!!! At the same party there was an
ok demo by DCS too called Kala.«»
At the Icing party some more pretty good demos got released. Especially the
Repugnance demo presented by Powerline was good, and it became quite
popular too among some sceners. 3 Little Elks also appeared again with
another demo. It's an animation which is a bit cool after my opinion, and
worth to watch.«»
«»
In Poland there were again many parties with good releases. At the Astrosyn
party for instance which was late at the year,
Venus Art presented some of their many productions this
year. Their demo Everything Dies, is quite special as all Venus Art
productions are. It got the usual Venus Art introduction, a BIG phongshaded
bumpmapped ball, other env.mapped objects, a very cool city with
helicopters flying around with various light effects, some great fish
objects and a cool spider and more. Also Appendix delivered a good demo,
and the same did Alien Productions. The winner in the intro competition
was also done Venus Art. It's called Quagmire. It got a long
precalculation. Anyway, it has some big env.mapped & phongshaded objects,
a cool dinosaur for instance, a falling-man object, a cool object in
a water-effect etc. Quite a good intro! The intro by Haujobb called
Control! is also good. It has stars, a nice logo, zooming/rotating, a fast
tunnel, blurr/particles and a nice design. The intro from Nah-Kolor was
ok too, and the same was the other Appendix intro called Up n'x. It got
a transforming phongshaded torus, picture waving, a tunnel, a big
phongshaded object in tunnel, zooming and rotating etc. There were also
a few 4k intros which can be watched, like Little Bug by Genetic and
Useless by Appendix.«»
«»
At Gravity earlier that year Venus Art made another winning demo. This time it
was Ghost in the machine. It got bump, textures, big env.mapped 3d objects
etc. If I'm not exchanging it with another Venus Art demo, I also think
this demo had a face-effect, phong shading, a 'doom' effect with a dog
chasing a man, a cool phongshaded roallercoaster, a very nice dragon-object
and some Lazur pictures! A good demo for sure! Also Floppy presented a good
demo at this party, which was called Fairytale. It had a theme which was
about Ufos. It has a great landscape routine with ufos-objects flying over
it. Some great env.mapped objects, and a cool water effect with reflections
of the ufos in the water. It also features a bump tunnel I think and some
phong shading. At the third place came a coop demo called Kah835gb, which is
quite ok too. At the same party a few good intros were released, like Spawn
by Appendix and Oubliette by Venus Art.«»
«»
At the Intel Outside 4 party Floppy also won. It was with the demo
Untitled, which is really great. It got really massive env.mapped objects,
which are transforming. There's also a great logo by Fame, a very detailed
env.mapped tunnel with speed etc. Appendix came second with a demo called
Mystique. It got some cool music, and a cool start effect which is a 3d
object. It also features a fast tunnel, a transparent logo in front of the
tunnel, fire tunnel, a cool water-effect, a very nice dolphin routine, some
bump mapping and more, in addition to a cool last effect which was like the
first effect of the demo. Now the object is also transparent...
The demos AN by Venture and Touching by Nah-Kolor are also worth watching.
There were also some ok intros released at that party, such as the winner
intro by Venus Art called Epoque. And the two Floppy intros Paleo and
Encore.«»
«»
I also have to mention a few productions from the RushHour party.
Especially the demos from Floppy and Anadune. Papadeo 2 is a cool demo
presented by Floppy, and quite many sceners like that one. However, I'll
just write a few words about the winning demo done by Anadune and Floopy
called Y'on! It got some nice gfx and nice music. It starts with a picture
with a cool smoke-effect in the background. It got a transparent
transforming object, spiral twister, tunnel like effect, bumpmapped Anadune
sign, cool transparent object in front of zooming picture, a nice
creditspart (with blur), many great env.mapped and phongshaded objects in
one screen, BIG lightsourced env.mapped object and more. I also have to
mention that it got a very special graphics style. It's without any doubt a
good demo. A few good intros also got released at this party, like Navel
by Appendix and Versor by Anadune. Navel won the party and has a big
transforming phongshaded torus etc. Versor got a nice design. It has a BIG
Anadune logo and later on also a Versor logo. It got blurr, transparent
env.mapped & phongshaded object etc.«»
«»
At the Kindergarden party in Norway, there were some good demos in 1997!
The group Subspace presented a really good demo called Toltek 9 which had
to share the first prize in the competition with the Spaceballs demo
Smurph! Some of the other demos presented weren't bad either, like Photons
from Ephidrena and Winona Ryder from Donut Fetish. As for ok intros
presented, then we have Quark by Anadune and Yoman2 from Donut Fetish.«»
«»
In Sweden, the yearly Remedy party gave the scene some more good demos.
The old group Rebels presented a good demo called Paranoid. It has nice
design with lots of pictures, cool music and good code. It has a cool
start effect, some nice anims (like the cloud anim), lightsourced voxel,
crossfade, bumpmapped object, lens, bump tunnel and an evn.mapped mushroom
object and music which fits. Anyway, this demo offers the usual effects
as some landscapes, tunnels and env. mapped objects. Tulou also presented
a good demo at this party, called Moonwalker! But I'll only write a few
words about the demo which came third in the competition. It was done by
TBL and called Panacea. It offers an appearing face-effect, some cool
credits with lights, a nice landscape routine mix, some shade cluster as
in Nexus 7, an effect similar to one in Scoopex Superautodrom 2 which got
released a year later on, another landscape effect, a special effect which
could perhaps be describes as wireframe and a bumpmapped and phongshaded
tunnel put together with good music.«»
«»
Some other parties, like the Scenest97 offered a few nice intros, like
K642 by Impulse, Illicity by Extasy and Lambda by Frame 18. And at the
Volcanic 3 party an ok demo by Kiki got released. It's called Tchi Tchi.
And then we have the Wired97 party which offers some nice demos, like
Sweet by Silicon and Corbier III by Syndrome. And the intro by Scoopex
called Performance is ok too. IRIS presented also a pretty good demo called
Kilkenny at the TCP party this year.«»
Anyway, lets move to the last big party of the year, The Party 7! As usual
some good productions got released at the party. I'll only write a few
words about it all. The Party was not such a big sucess when it comes to
organizing this year, and The Party series had a falling tendency as for
amiga sceners too. But again it gave us some good demos and intros. The
winner demo was presented in coop by Haujobb and Scoopex. It was made by
alot of people, like 4 coders, 5 graphicians and 2 musicians! And the result
was great as the demo My Kingdom beat the runner up with twize as many
votes. The last demo I've ever seen from CNCD came second, it's called
Killer Automatique... and a killer it is. Alot of talented sceners
participated in the making. Smoke made another good demo, and they managed
to grab the third place with Electroboy. Also other demos got to be
mentioned, like Remix from Limited Edition which perhaps is not as known
among sceners as the other 3 demos. As all the demos had lots of
env.mapped 3d objects, Remix was no exception. But it has some bad music
after my opinion, but a great logo and nice picture. Apart from that, it got the usual
routines; like some cool env.mapping, tunnel like effect, refletion
shading, a cool credits part, a fight among two transformers, a cool
phongshaded object and more. Factor released their Mellow Yellow, and the
last good demo I'll mention is Aprodisia by Haujobb. This party offered
lots of good intros, especially Efreet's Deeppan offered alot, but it only
came 4th. The winner intro was presented by Scoopex, and is called
Superautodrome. And it's really a great intro. It got a BIG env.mapped
ball, and then its being zoomed inside and there we see some big objects.
It got the usual phongshaded env.mapped Scoopex sign, it got a massive
world with 4 mirrors... its big and fast, and like a good fetus object!
Of course the intro had some good music. Oxyron gave us the intro which
came third. It's called Suicide. At second place came the intro Cruisin
done by Abyss. It got a nice logo, a line-draw effect with blurr (some
would call it wireframe)... it kinda like a fire-effect. Anyway, it's a
nice intro, but havent got any stunning effects. The last 40k I'll mention
is Entering Hypnosis by Haujobb. Anyway, this party also had a few good
4k intros. Especially Wave by Artwork was good. It got some bubbles,
mapped twisting and turning tunnel and a twister. Also Beer from
Ephidrena was impressive. It got at least one good effect which is being
used in various ways, its like a ball in the centre and all lights and
movements come out of there. You just have to check it out yourself.
Also the intro Seven by Depth is good. In any case, lots of good
productions got out at this party. Infact, most of the releases are
enjoyable.«»
At the end, I just have to mention a demo from EMS Design called Oderless
which is quite good, but didn't get out at party I think.«»
«»
Anyway, most of the effects in the demos were the same as the previous
year. But now it was more obvious that 3d engines were more favoured than
creating new innovative amiga effects.«»
«»
As for slideshows, there was a stagnation in 1997. Infact, I don't remember
seeing many new that year. But I have to mention Dream Or Reality with gfx
from Unreal and Splinters with graphics from Rendall.«»
«»
There weren't many new good musicdisks either this year, infact there
weren't many new musicdisks at all. At least I can't remember any at all...
or just perhaps Symbolix with music from Pirat got out that year?«»
«»
In the diskmag department things were changing too. ROM faded away that
year, and the landscape was more open. There was no obvious ruler anymore.
But good mags were Generation, SeenPoint, ShowTime, EuroChart, Jurassic
Pack, and perhaps mags as Insomnia, Trashcan, X-files, Oepir Risti,
Friendchip and perhaps a few others. There were still a few mags being
released reguarly.«»
«»
The most popular coders that year, were mostly the ones that had
participated in the makings of the best demos and intros that year, and
the ones that were most active. I can mention alot of popular coders this
year; like Offa, Equalizer, Azure, Antibyte, PG, Zig, Jamie, Scout,
Aivo, Alien, Eft, TTS, Modem, Boogeyman, Kenny Star etc.«»
«»
As for graphicians, there were many lots of good ones. Lazur, Made,
Cyclone, Danny, Louie, Facet, Destop, Unreal, Rendell, Norm, TMK, Typhoon,
Fame, Mrk, Rodney, Kazik, Dzordan, Mustafa, Visual, Beast, Fiver and more.«»
«»
There were also many popular musicians. Some were Azazel, Muffler, Pink,
Revisq, Virgill, Groo, Dizzy, Scorpik, Ganja, Marc, Yolk, Dascon, Caramel,
Substance, Chromag, Jazz, Dreamer, Notman and the usual Lizardking and Jogeir
of course.«»
«»
As for swappers, I would say that Blaze, Splatterhead, Trasher, Ghandy,
Hawk, Azzaro etc. were among the better ones.«»
«»
The top 3 editors got to be MOP, RokDaZone and Fishwave.«»
«»
And the most popular groups were TBL, Artwork, Essence, Limited Edition,
Floppy, Scoopex and perhaps Haujobb and Nerve Axis.«»
«»
In any case, 1997 will be remembered for some great productions but there
was a bit depressive attitude towards the end of the year, as so many
profiled persons were leaving the scene. Like many of the sceners in groups
like TBL, Artwork, Essence etc. which were among the best ones. And I would
dare to say the scene was stagnating with the lack of new routines.«»
«»
So I'd say that 1997 was the first year with sign of stagnation!«»
In «c6»1998 «c7»the PCC cards had arrived at the marked I think, and the first PPC
demos got released. Anyway, the PPC cards didn't become the success as
expected. Anyway, I'll try again to only mention the productions I think
are the most important in the way I began writing about the scene history.
In any case, I think there have not arrived so many new sceners the latest
years, as the recruitation is bad. Most sceners are familiar with the usal
effects. Therefore I'll try not to comment the routines in the productions
I'll briefly mention. So here's a short summery of 1998.«»
«»
There were less amiga parties in 1998, and less productions being released.
Again the best productions got out at the biggest parties, as The
Gathering, The Mekka Symposium, The Assembly, The Party and the usual
Polish parties with many quality releases like The Gravity and RushHours
parties. But also a few other parties offered good productions. The obvious
change in most big parties, were that PC people had taken over. The amiga
sceners were a small minority at most parties around.«»
«»
As for the most important demos this year, I have to mention demos such as;
Relic/Nerve Axis, Rise/TRSI, Alien2/Scoopex, XIII Oxyron, Delta/Embassy,
Aprodisia/Haujobb, Napalm/Floppy, Automatic For The People/Mawi, Extra
Lite/Abyss, Wildlife/Abyss, Scraps Of Being/Mankind, Blow/Nah-Kolor,
Synthesis/Network, Riot/Appendix, Nebula/Dual Crew-Shining, Absolon/Venus
Art & Mawi, Substral/Ephidrena, Aromecolour/Cirion, Nostalgica/Nukleus,
Face Off/Venture, GrimLeaven/Victims, Pusherman/Tolou, Raybong/Loveboat,
Visable world 100%/Mawi, No Sex/Zenon, Flea/Appendix, Reflexity/Sector 7, Invitation
None/Sonik Clique, Swift/IRIS, Phase One/Capsule Inc, Puzzle/Puzzle,
Mindwalker/Vegas, Unathorized Lands/Nah-Kolor, Kicker/Nature, Mental Brain
Disorder/Loonies, 
Retrospectacular/Contraz, Automatic/Nature, The Girl With The Sun In His Hair/Mawi,
The Family Robot/Spaceballs, 242DL75/Rage and there is probably many I've
forgotten. Infact, I can't remember all the productions mentioned above
either, but they've been popular among various sceners.«»
«»
I'll just have a closer look at a few of these productions, and try to
avoid writing too much. First out is the demo Rise by MellowChips of TRSI.
It got a cool atmospheric start, but it's not the beginning of a story.
Infact, Rise offers no story at all, but instead it could best be described
as a row of various scenes. And those scenes are just great! Who can forget
the introduction when lazer is being used to write the name of the demo?
It's an impressive effect. Then we have the scenes of the woman which walks
over the camera, runs into a fabolous waterfall and dives into it. It's
just an incredible scene. Then we have the scene when the octopus appears,
and the sounds fits perfectly. We have the scene with the snake and the
spider which appears in the background, and above all, perhaps the scene
inside the church. It truly gives us an almost religious experience. It
really is an amazing demo, with atmsopheric music as there's a change of
themes (some borrowed) and the use of soundeffects, some great textures and a great design
in general. But the question is only if this is what the scene really want?
I mean, should the amiga scene really just be a vage copy of the PC demos
with 3d and lightwave as the key elements? It would be hard to compete with
the best PC demos then, as they have lots of more RAM and better
processors. And what happened to innovation? Anyway, I think it's one of
the best demos so far.«»
«»
Another demo I have to comment, is of course Relic by Nerve Axis. Relic is
just that, a relic of Nerve Axis' present in the scene. It continues the
trend as in Rise, it's all about 3d scenes. Infact Relic has very nice 3d
scenes, good graphics (one picture) and music with soundeffects, it's atmospheric, it's magnificient! The
difference from Rise, is that Relic also has a story.
The story is about the end of the world, and starts in space. A
spacecraft appears, and we follow it around. Then the blurred credits are being
shown. Then the spacecraft gets an external power supply that
causes  three big lightnings outside the craft, just to be
gathered  and  concentrated below it, where a
kind of probe-object appears.  Soon after this probe flies towards the earth.
Then the title of the demo is revealed as the sand that covers the title is
being blown away. Quite cool. Afterwards we are taken to the
surface of the planet, where we're flying
above  a green landscape.  Out of the fog appears an old temple, done
with the add of a blur-effect. Then we're flying through the clouds, observing
the probe  that  is getting nearer and nearer to the temple. Then a
strong light is generated between the probe and
the  temple.  Powerful enough to make some until now invisible windows in the
temple  shine very bright. The next thing that happends is that the
building breaks loose from the ground.
And now we discover that the temple is only  the top of a big arch.
We go away from the earth and into space again, and then a big black hole opens
close  to the planet, and explodes in a gigantic flash
that sends a big heat wave out into space, and big fireballs towards earth.
Then some great explosion scenes are being shown as fireballs hit the
surface, and some heatwaves are seen. Cities are being crushed into dust.
And at last, the earth explodes... it's really an fabolous experience. Only
the arch remains... One of the best demos ever I guess.«»
«»
I also will write a very few words about the demo Napalm by Floppy, as the
message of the demo is death. It offers some great transparent env.mapped
vectors, and there are really alot of massive vectors in this demo. The one
scene I have to mention is the great scene the swing where there are no
kids using them, as you can imagine they are dead! Napalm! The demo also
offers some great music.«»
«»
Also a short remark to a demo with nice design, as the one called Raybong
from Haujobb. It has some blurred bobs, good picture, raytraced logo with a
cool tunnel like effect in the background, an animation of two people
fighting, spiral twister, picture waving effect, kinda landscape routine,
some zooming/rotating, transforming phongshaded env.mapped objects and then
it returns to the effect as in the start. Anyway, this demo has the usual
effects displayed in 1998.«» 
«»
As for the ordinary intros, the best ones this year are probably;
Imitation None/TBL, 1000%/Scoopex, Outgrowing/Potion, Korn/Amnesty,
Superautodrome2/Scoopex, 2CB/DCS, The Morning Trip/Loonies, Shibya/Haujobb,
Red Eye/Sonik, Hard Core/Nah-Kolor, Edit 0.5/Haujobb, Total
Dominance/Spaceballs, React/Absurd, Beetle/Mystic, Family Business/Abyss,
System Crime/Scoopex, Fusion Is My Energy/Ephidrena, Born Again/Venus Art,
G-Spot/Loveboat, Soma/Haujobb & Dual Crew-Shining, Shema/Nah-Kolor, Can't
Stop/Nuance, Cruisin II/Abyss, Kkube/Przyjaciele Stefana B, Tinnitus/IRIS,
4-2-5 Dimethoxyphenethylaminebromo/DCS, Revolution 909/Mawi,
Popgun/Paragon, Tribute/Abyss, N20/Spaceballs, Moving/DarkAge,
Effu/Scoopex, Stars Of Another Sky/Spaceballs, Colors/Cromatic, Electric
Baby/Da Jormas, A Very Long Precalc/Contraz and of course there are some I
can't remember.«»
Most of these intros have the same effects. The intros from Scoopex, are
very like the previous Scoopex intros. Not much innovation, but still they
use a great engine. Like Superautodrome 2 got some nice blurr effects,
the same 3d Scoopex star as in all intros, everything is rotating with a
good background, it got bump, some really massive 3d objects, landscape,
a cool spider and as always, great camera movements and music. It makes
the standard of an intro.
But there is a difference from the various groups, as
certain coders really like to use the same effects in some way or another
in all their intros. Just take some intros from Scoopex, Ephidrena,
Spaceballs, Nah-Kolor etc. and compare them to other intros from the same
coders in those groups.«»
«»
Then we have the 4k intros. The most popular in 1998 were Hippie Machinery/
Spaceballs, 4k by Whelpz, Fracture/LSI, Nomad/Victims, Together/Phase
Truce, 4 Kazz/Genesis, Lift Me/Contraz, Pink/Looker House, They/ITB, 
Together, Missed/Mawi, Remix/Phace Truce, Bool!/Taski, S38ZB4/Mawi, Byte/Ephidrena,
Quiet/DarkAge and Thud Remix/Mawi. There are probably some others I've
missed also.«»
«»
«»
The usal EFFECTS in the various productions were as I see it, almost the
same as the two previous years. Perhaps a few variations on which way to
use those routines though. The innovation was about gone, no more small
effects, everything was 3d now!«»
«»
This year as the last year, about no slideshows got released. However, a
very good slideshow by Scoopex called 5977 got released. All gfx is done by
the genious Lazur. Mawi released the slideshow Visable World with gfx from
Zoltan, Jacko and Azzaro I think. «»
«»
There were only a few new musicdisks this year. But the ones I know got
released were DisIsSid by Abyss featuring music by various, and Dolphinary
done by Pic Saint Loup and the musicans Adamsoft and SuperFML.«»
«»
As for diskmags, it was another sad year. Mags like Generation, Insomnia, Retro,
Phoenix, Pressure and X-files all faded away during the year. That is,
some are not declared dead yet and may be released again. The best mags
and almost the only mags around were; SeenPoint/Scoopex,
Generation/EndZeit, Trashcan/Network, Insomnia/Looker House & TRSI, Jurassic
Pack/Gods and Retro/Independent.«»
«»
Most popular groups were Scoopex, Nerve Axis, Abyss, Haujobb, DCS, TBL,
TRSI, Floppy, Nah-Kolor, Embassy I guess.«»
«»
The most popular coders were Antibyte/Scoopex, Schlott/Nerve Axis,
Aivo/TRSI, Zig/Floppy, Shape/DCS, Speedo/Loveboat&DCS,
Sly&Humanoid/Embassy, Azure/Bizarre Arts, Jamie/Skarla, Boogeyman/Scoopex,             
Blueberry/EFT&FNQ&LNS, Scout/C!S&TBL&APX&NTW, EFT/Kangooroo, Offa/The Black Lotus                   
and Optima/Scoopex.«»
«»
The most popular graphicians were Made/Bomb, Lazur/Scoopex, Cyclone/Abyss,
Danny/TBL, Unreal/Faculty & Nah-Kolor, Mustafa/Mystic, Louie/CNCD&TBL,
TMK/Instinct, Beast/Kangooroo, Acryl/Scoopex, Visualize/Radio 1997,
Optic/DCS, Caro/Nah-Kolor, Nelson/Potion, Kidlove/Scoopex, Dzordan/Moons,
Peachy/Haujobb, JCS/Haujobb, Mrk/Limited Edition, Wade/Faction,
Fame/FLP&Mawi, Leunam/Network, Bifrost/Loonies, and some oldtimers like
Cougar/Sanity, Facet/TBL & Lemon, Ra/Noon etc.«»
«»
As for musicians that year, I guess the most popular were; Muffler/DCS &
Scoopex, Virgill/Endzeit & Scoopex, Pink/Abyss, Ganja/Nerve Axis, Revisq/
Anadune, Substance/DCS & Mono, Scorpik/Noiseless & Pulse, Marc/Haujobb,
X-ceed/Endzeit & Floppy, Jazz/Haujobb, Mortimer Twang/Various,
SuperFml/Appendix & PSL, Psycho/Endzeit & PSL, Azazel/TBL, Vesuri/Jormas,
Caramel/Inferiors, Frequent/Ephidrena, Zixaq/Ephidrena, Nutman/IRIS,
Curt Cool/Depth, Moby/Sanity, Chromag/Haujobb, Jogeir/Noiseless,
Heatbeat/CNCD and Melomaniac.«»
«»
Most popular editors were; Fishwave/Scoopex, RokDaZone/EndZeit,
Sane/Scoopex, KaosMaster/DarkAge, Ghandy/DKG&FTH&Gods, Darkhawk/IRIS,
Soda/DarkAge and Mop/Essence as always.«»
«»
The best swappers this year got to be Blaze/FLP&NAH&OBL&APX,
Punisher/MTA&APT&MWI, Thunder/Scoopex, The Hooligan/DCS, Carp/Apathy,
Azzaro/Mawi&Embassy, Splatterhead/Scoopex and some others.«»
«»
With a few exceptions, like the demos Rise, Relic and Alien II, the
slideshow 5977 etc, there weren't that many great productions around.«»
«»
1998 was definately the year when 3d took over. The things that usually
dominated the amiga demos and intros in the past, like various new effects,
were gone. Everything had to be big 3d worlds just as in the PC demos.«»
«»
«c6»1999 «c7»was not a very good year in the scene history. We suffered under the
fact that many of the active coders of the past became inactive, and lots
of graphicians had left the scene too. But a few good productions got
released, like some demos, and especially 4k intros. I think this year
the best 4k intros ever got released. Much of this was caused by the coder
Exploder. Also a few good slideshows and great musicdisks. But the year
didn't bring much innovation I'm afraid. I think the scene took one step
backwards...«»
«»
Some of the most popular demos this year were; Rain/TBL, Mute12/Mawi,
Mnemonics/Haujobb, Datablade/Floppy, 
Concrete/Ephidrena, Klone/Dual Crew-Shining, Vertus/Potion,
Supermonster/Spaceballs, When We Ride On Our Enemies/Skarla,
Valhalla/Loonies, SmokeBomb/Ozone, We Love You/Replay
Y'AGA/Anadune, I-Surf/IRIS, Beats/Loveboat, GenderBender/TotalVision,
New World Child/ManKind, Sayontscheck/Lamers, Megademo/Mystic,
Sömnlös i Sala/Tulou, Spaceballs vs. The Mad Hatter/Spaceballs,
Elthiag/Floppy, Yoman3/Donut Fetish, Mansion Of Illusion/Potion,
Flux/Ephidrena, Distortion/Spaceballs, Under Pressure/DarkAge,
Vendette/Nuance, Mushrooms Haloons/Embora, Freedom/EndZeit, Bong/Contraz, 
Astrology/Whelpz, Quest/IRIS, Outside/Keso, TunOn-TuneIn-DropOut/Floppy,
Menkind sucks/IQ2000, Educational Sex lesson/Limbo, Guagelord v1.0/Ihana,
EggWould/BullshitArts, Snigelsaft/Latex, Y/IQ2000+Nevermind and   
I'm sure I've forgotten many some good demos here, but I haven't really seen
that many demos from that year. There were also some ok oldschool demos
made especially for A500, like Rout/Potion, Eclipse/Scoopex, Best Before
2000/Itb, Oldies But Goodies/Melting Pot and some others.«»
«»
I'll not make many comments about various demos. But I have to write a few
words about a demo I've not seen mentioned anywhere, not in the charts nor
in any articles. It's Mute 12 by Mawi! I think it's a pretty cool demo
with a special atmosphere. It has some blurred wireframing, nice pictures,
a nice landscape routine with a very nice 3d man-object flying above.
It got a testuremapped question mark which is tranforming, it got a nice
Mad Wizards logo, some more 3d objects, a real fast colourful tunnel,
and an impressive routine with the screen divived into 4 with lots of
routines in each corner and more being added. It got even more wireframing,
some blurred dots over a Mute 12 picture, some great pictures and more
blur, many fast changes between pictures, some really great 3d objects
which phongshaded and transforming in front of a moving background, a very
nice flower object with a woman object beside it, a kinda tunnel effect,
more blurr and objects, and a routine with a great picture being revealed
slowly, a sort of picture waving routine and a picture of a woman etc.
Quite entertaining.«»
«»
Also Vertus/Potion hasn't got much attention. It partly got a theme about
Ufo's and it got some greytoned textures, some wireframing, some ufo
objects and some great explosions/light effects etc. The effects are really
massive, and we get to see some standard aliens, hehe... We get to see many
effects inside a building which are really great texturemapped 3d objects.
One special good effect is when we see a light/fire reflected in 3 screens
in the roof of the building. It's a good demo worth to have a look at.«» 
«»
Another underestimated demo from 1999, is I-Surf from IRIS. It got a few
nice effects, like a cool domino-effect, a twirl effect, a rotating
disco-ball, a cool 3d scene with a ashtray, bumpmapped tunnel, wireframing
some nice pictures and lots more. It's better to have a look at it
yourself.«»
«»
The most popular intros in 1999 were;«»
«»
Push/Extreme, Gush/Potion, Fusion Is No Good For Me/Spaceballs, Impossible/
Loonies, Total Magic/Mawi, Grid/Nature, Fetish/Ozone,
Eclipse/Mawi, Offbeat/Loveboat, Worms From My Head/Nah-Kolor, NonStop/DCS,
Plastic/Phase Truce & Nah-Kolor, Crossing/Network, Kryptonite/Depth,
Rods/Potion & Weeds, Sparkling Blue Light/Spaceballs, Sundance/Da Jormas,
Inside Deluxe/Degeneration, Pulsar/Scoopex, Oh/Whelpz, Sehnsucht/Harvester, 
Popjunkie/Spaceballs, Qapmoc/Black Monks, älä ota sitä vakavasti/Da Jormas,
Eraser Head/Floppy, Ngfl-Super/Ninja Gefilus, Oldschool/Apathy, Grid/Tulou, Motions/Whelpz,
Kangooroa Or Something/Bus, 2998z/DarkAge, Semiconductor/Decree,
Temperamental/Focus Design,
Spasm/W.F.M.S, Outgrowing/Potion, 
Pretty Fly/Apathy, Flash/IRIS, Waip/Da Jurmas, Poem/IRIS, Dive/Nah-Kolor, Raos/Potion in addition to
some others I didn't include.«»
«»
A pretty good intro like Worms from Nah-Kolor offers some massive
texturemapping in a vector world, a face-object, some toruses, a
water-effect etc. But I think it's a bit slow.«» 
«»
The most popular 4k intros were;
Pukamat/Tundrah, Freedom/Extreme, Hyper/Focus, Revision/Extreme,
Design & Scoopex, Gap/Extreme, Inside/Phase Truce, Dust/Extreme, Myth/Potion/
Big/Ephidrena, Wish/Extreme, Atmosphere/Joker, Mirrors2/Floppy, Tun/Apathy,
Blues/Contraz, Ryba/Przyjaciele Stefana b, Das EFX/Scoopex, Land/Sabaoth,
Dust/Taski,  
Joy/Whelpz, Breeze Now/DarkAge, Rising/Tolkien, Etic/Digital, 4th/Phase
Truce, Profanity/Darkside and True Dreams 2X2/Floopy.«»
«»
This year got to have the best 4k intros ever, and mostly because of the
great coding skills of Exploder when he was in Extreme. He delievers one
great 4k after another. But also a few other groups made some good 4k
intros, like Ephidrena, Potion and Floppy for instance.«»
«»
There weren't that many new effects this year either, infact I can't really
come to think of any right now.... but perhaps the use of wireframing was
new this year? That is to reuse it, as it was used many years ago.
In any case, 3D scenes were totally dominating the various productions.«»
«»
This year some good musicdisks got out. Especially Extravaganja from
Nerve Axis with music from Ganja was great. Also SuperDrug from Loonies
was impressive, perhaps not because of the music but because of the code.
Anyway, quite many good musicians participated in the making; Tarmslyng,
Puryx, Maytz and farfar. I also have to mention Sonikk by Mawi with the
music of Timer, and perhaps Shroominds by Depth featuring Trip.«»
«»
As for slideshows, only a few got released this year also. The ones that
got to be mentioned are Photocell 1x1 by Anadune & Mawi with gfx from
Kazik, and additional work by Azzero and Drf. And the other slide is
One Spiritual Journey by Mawi with graphics from PickPok and Kazik.«»
«»
As for the mags, there weren't that many around anymore. But the most
popular international mags were ShowTime, SeenPoint, EuroChart, TrashCan,
The Scene Press and Jurassic Pack. But there were also some other popular
national mags, like Beret, Taboo, Excess, Dansktoppen and a few others.
Also there were quite many packmags around. The best of them all was
probably Speed.«»
«»
The most popular groups were;«»
Scoopex, Nerve Axis, DCS, Floppy, Abyss, Mawi, Mellow Chips, Loveboat,
TBL, Skarla, Ephidrena, Loonies and Nah-Kolor.«»
«»
The most popular coders this year were; Jamie/Skarla, Zig/Floppy, Antibyte/
Scoopex, Schlott/Nerve Axis, Shape/DCS, Mavey/Potion, Aivo/Mellow Chips,
Azure/Bizarre Arts, Elf/Venus Art, Exploder/Extreme, Scout/Various, Boogeyman/ex.Scoopex,
BlueBerry/Efreet & Loonies, Maq/Floppy, Slummy/Spaceballs, Noxis/Mawi,
Speedo/Loveboat & DCS, EFT/Kangooroo, Sly & Humanoid/Embassy,
LoadError/Ephidrena, RubberDuck/TBL etc.«»
«»
The most popular graphicians were;«»
«»
Cyclone/Abyss, Made/Bomb, Lazur, Dzordan/Anadune & Moons, Facet/TBL &
Lemon, Fame/Floppy & Nah-Kolor & Mawi, Caro/NAH&PHT, Danny/TBL,
Judas/IRIS, Slayer/Appendix, Mustafa/Cruel, Acryl/Abyss & Scoopex,
Unreal/FCT&NAH, Adam/DCS, Louie/TBL&CNCD, PickPoke/Floppy&Scum, Visualize/
Radio 1997, Ra/Noon, Jugi/Complex, JCS/Haujobb, Bifrost/Loonies,
Nelson/Potion, Spark/Nah-Kolor, Dzordan/Anadune, Budgie/Absurd,
Cheetah/Ephidrena and others.«»
«»
Most popular musicians were;«»
«»
Revisq/Various, Muffler/DCS & Scoopex, Ganja/Nerve Axis,
Substance/DCS & Mono & VDO, Virgill/EndZeit & Haujobb, 
Mortimer Twang/Various, Pink/Abyss, Marc/Haujobb & Sector 7, X-Ceed/Endzeit
& Floppy,
Scorpik/Noiseless, Dizzy/CNCD, Vesuri/Jormas, Timer/Mawi,
Spectra/Mawi, SuperFML/PSL, Radix/LED, Moby/Noon, Jester/Pygmy Projects,
Duckhunter/Spaceballs, Xtd/Mystic, Zixag/Ephidrena and some others.«»
«»
The most populars swappers were probably Evan/DCS&Nah&Mawi,
Renton/DCS&FLP&PTN&NAH, Kempy/Veezya,
Azzero/Mawi&Embassy, Roover/Nah-Kolor,
Hakon/Whelpz and McR/Mawi.«»
«»
The most popular editors in 1999 were:«»
«»
Most popular editors were Fishwave/Scoopex, Sane, Curt Cool/Depth,
RokDaZone/EndZeit, Ghandy/DarkAge & Gods and Belos/Mawi.«»
Anyway, 1999 could be described as a year of despair for true scene freaks.«»
«»
The year of «c6»2000 «c7»wasn't very good either. The ordinary BIG
parties such as The Gathering, The Assembly and The Party were disasterous.
I'm pretty sure that only a few amiga sceners will be present at those in the
future. This year the Assembly party even made a joint competition, and
it's uncertain if the Gathering will have more amiga competitions also.
At the moment the intro competition will at least be a joint competition.
And at The Party 2000 a 4k intro managed to come third in the demo
competition! We did not get to see many good
demos nor intros in 2000, but at least a few good productions have been
released. New parties have taken over and some of the best productions in
2000 were released at Mekka-Symposium and at the Satellite parties, but
The Party also offered at least 3 quality productions.
Things are also happening within Amiga Inc. As the amiga got
new owners in January last year, some new optimism has reached our small
community. Amiga skipped the new Amiga OS 3.9 on the 4th of December, and
its available in the various computer shops and it can be ordered from the
various amiga partners.
And within a few months the AmigaOne will be available too as an upgrade of our classic
amigas.«»
«»
The most popular demos in 2000 are;«»
Cybercinematastic/Loonies, I Want To Be Machine/Appendix, Megademo
2000/Haujobb, Hypnopolis/Spaceballs, Back to the roots/Haujobb, Arla/Loonies, 
First Awakening/Creative Minds, Abecedarian/IRIS, Mayhem/Appendix,
J/Ephidrena, 
NEO 2/DarkAge, W34/Silicon 206, Webster/Contraz, Welcome to Our
World/DarkAge&IRIS, Camella Thea/RNO, New Age/Encore, Metatag/Mawi,
Violent Dumb/Mankind, Zillement/Greuh!, Digital Dreams/Genesis,
Urea/po-RNO, Janne Ahonen/Ephidrena, Planet Goa/Decree, Murderous/Floppy,
Torchtro 30min/Ukonx, Summer/Tolou, Outta Space/Secretly!, Rage Against The
Female/Reason, At The Movies/Loonies, Estadiol/Potion, Bombfire/Camel Kaos,
Smurphine - Another O.D/Spaceballs, Trinity/Trinity, Killtec/Red Lobster, DeathTrial/Mankind
and Pluss/Ephidrena to
mention the ones I've registrated. I have a feeling I've missed quite
many demos this year, especially Polish demos. There have also been
released some old school demos, and the most popular are;
Millenium/Scoopex, Lick/Spaceballs, True Evil Witch/Haujobb, Noget Fedt/The
Beerz, Pshyco Killer/Spaceballs, DemoDisk/X Metal Force Crew, Where Is She/
Gothix and some demos that have been showed at the various parties but not
been released.«»
«»
Personally I find many of these productions above not good at all, and some look
more like intros than demos. But there haven't been
released that many good demos in 2000... infact less than 10 after my opinion.
So I just included the most popular.«»
«»
But a few demos that are good, and that is typical for the new 3d based
amiga-demo making, have been done by Loonies. Their winner at Mekka
Symposium called Cybercinematastic is a themetic demo
about various Hollywood movies. It got splendid textures of different
3d objects. I especially like The Abyss part, but I'm sure other people
have other favourites. Loonies also made a small but fast demo which
captivated the audience... it's called Arla. The first few seconds I expected
a pretty bad demo, but after a few more seconds I really liked it.
The music fits perfectly to the various movements. The last Loonies production
so far, is another small demo. At The Movies got released at the TRSAC 00.5
party in November. This Loonies production also got a theme, and this time it's
a silent movie from the 1920's featuring Charlie Chaplin as the main character.«»
«»
Another demo and demo-group I got to mention is I Want To Be Machine by
Appendix. But before I tell more about that, Mayhem by Appendix is also a
very nice demo worth to watch. Anyway, I.W.T.B.M. is a demo which requires
quite a good processor and lots of RAM. It starts with a fading from the
intro picture into a landscape, and it offers various effects. Like lots
of textures... its a kinda doom lanscape while the credits are being
showed for instance. It features lots of texturemapped cubes, transparent
cubes, wireframing and some cool tranformation of these vectors. It got
lots of flatshading, a cool effect in a bubble, 3d-world with motionblur
and a big texturemapped tree which grows into heaven and lots of other
stuff. The demo is being shown in some grey colours to make it fit to the
theme I guess, which is I Want To Be a Machine. Go on and watch it.«»
«»
The last demo which you should watch from the year 2000, is Megademo
2000 by Haujobb.«»
«»
As for intros, the most popular are:«»
Grid2/Nature, Gift/Potion, Ten/Vectors, Suicidal/Potion, Strange Distortion/Haujobb,
Incision/Push Entertainment, Tourbus 3/DCS, Euskacktro/Software Failure,
Omnicrom/Ephidrena, Chiller/Spaceballs, Motion Blur/Horizontal Lamerz,
Yes!/Haujobb & Loveboat, Modular/Haujobb, Electricity/Appendix, Divide/Grim Project,
Super Hero/Spaceballs, Heaven/Whelpz, LaChopper/Morbid Visions, Randomized
Sheep/Loonies, UltraPunch/Mankind, Vivid/IRIS, 
Aimless/Whelpz, Ch2/Spy, Yoo!/Moons, AHA/Apathy, Cracktro/Trinity, Fast/Nuance,
Zero Divide/Grim Project, Radialblur/Harvester, Minus 4/RNO, My House/Darkage, Rays/Whelpz,
Ego/Focus Design, Heaven Is Too Dimensional and Teddy Is Too Dimensional
both by/Horizontal Lamers, Willy Bogner/Spaceballs, Radianze/Contraz and a few others.«»
«»
«»
«»
The quality of the intros mentioned above are very different, from the
worst to the very best.«»
«»
The very best could be the description of Incision by Push Entertainment.
It takes actually alot of time before it's possible to watch it as the
preparation includes generating the samples and rendering the patterns.
The music is generated as a remake of a module by Visual/Extreme, and
apart from that, everything is done by the coder genious Exploder. The
intro got a theme, and the theme is space! We are witness to good camera
movements as we follow certain spacecrafts around (3d objects), and the
routines are fast. Lots of vectors are displayed, a big object, a tunnel,
a spacecraft race, splendid reflections, some satellite objects, a
spacestation, blurr, explosions and all in nice colours. The intro last
quite long and I enjoy all the action in space! It's just awesome.
Surely this is Russian aggression!!! Watch it!«»
«»
Another very good intro in 2000 was Grid2 by Nature.
Before getting to see anything at all, we have to wait while the long
precalculation takes place. But then suddenly the fun starts. The letters
N A T U R E is slowly being showed as they enter the screen sideways. And
then G R I D 2 appears the same way. An ordinary 2d engine is used.
Afterwards we're being introduced to the first real effect: something which
looks like a lightsourced vectorobject or flatline vectorobject with lots of flare-bobs (or
blurred bobs if you wish) moving in all directions in the background.
We get to see something which appears like a picture waving routine, but
its more like a blurred tunnel. Then we get so see a wireframe tunnel with
changing objects inside and flare-bobs outside. Then another tunnel appears
and we're moving backwards and forwards. More wireframing and more objects
appear. We also get to see some very nice cubes, some cool transforming
objects I've never seen before and all with good camera movements.
Towards the end we get some see the credits being showed while some
wireframe objects appear in the background. And we also get to see some
wireframe objects which I choose to call them inside vector objects.
One very good intro which definately deserved to win the competition!!!
I think the 3d engine used with antialised lines, flat-polys and flare-blobs
is very good. Also the double-crossed raycast tunnel was enjoyable and all
with nice music.«»
«»
When it comes to the 4k intros, I guess the most popular are;«»
Bier/Ephidrena, Genoma/Software Failure, Humus/Push Entertainment,
Wave 2000 %/Bizarre Arts, B0rst/Ephidrena, Art Of 4k/DCS,
Noisejesus/Spaceballs, 
Fee/Floppy, Mitosis/Software Failure, Bool Shit/Taski, Shine/Darkage,  
Polychrome/Mad Wizards, The Air #1/Embassy and Hest/Gunnars Farvebio.«»
«»
I got to say that I'm always excited getting 4k intros from Exploder,
Ham and LoadError as I know I won't get disappointed. But also a few
others are able to create some great 4ks after my opinion (Like Azure &
Slummy).«»
When it comes to slideshows that year, I've only seen two. But I'm sure
there have been released more. Anyway, I like the two I've seen. One
is called Innocence By Faction featuring Wade, and other one is named
Divine by Gods with graphics from Typhoon.«»
«»
As for musicdisks that year, I'm afraid I haven't heard of many. But
I know that Potion have released two musicdisks. The first one was called
Schizofrenia and the other one was called Despair. TZK has made the music
in both of these musicdisks!«»
«»
In year 2000 a few events have happened in the diskmag world. Oepir
Risti/Citron
made a surprising return by releasing an issue in March, two issues of
ShowTime/DarkAge have been released, the latest in November. The only regular
release, is the EuroChart by Depth & IRIS. SeenPoint/Scoopex made a last
release earlier this year after 5 years. Suddenly it seemed like the scene
wouldn't have ONE normal mag (as Oepir Risti deals with no-scene matters
and the ST and EC are chartmags). But then Devotion/Nah-Kolor got released.
It was something which the scene had waited for. And as you're
reading this, D.I.S.C. has returned after nearly 6 years of silence! But
then again, it's now 2001!
How the scene will react, I surely don't know. In addition to that, there
have been releases of Excess/Mawi, Beret/Beret Squad,
Dansktoppen/Cromatics & Loonies and I think also Taboo/Appendix. In
addition to those mags I also think mags like Trashcan, Insomnia, ROM and
Jurassic Pack still have some fans.«»
«»
The best packs are still Speed/Nah-Kolor (but recently Case took over it),
FrozenPack/Whelpz, Sabotage/Reason, Zosia/Mawi (and Embrion/Veezya) I think.«» 
«»
The most popular coders that year are;«»
«»
LoadError/Ephidrena, Optima/Scoopex, Shape/DCS, Psycho/Loonies, Mavey/Potion,
Antibyte/Scoopex, Exploder/Push Entertainment, Zig/Floppy,
BlueBerry/Loonies, Schlott/Nerve Axis, Krabob/Mankind, Jamie/Skarla,
Pipe/Nature, Craid/Haujobb, 
Scout/C-Lous & TBL & Appendix, Maq/Floppy & Appendix, Rubberduck/TBL,
Aivo/Mellow Chips, Azure/Bizarre Arts, Noxis/Mawi, Slummy/Spaceballs and
a few others.«»
«»
«»
The most popular graphicians are;«»
«»
Cyclone/Haujobb, Made/Bomb, Dzordan/Anadune & Moons, Lazur, Acryl/Scoopex &
Abyss, Typhoon/Gods, Caro/NAH&PHT&PTN&Encore, Judas/IRIS, Slayer/Appendix,
Adam/DCS, Unreal/Kangooroo, Louie/TBL & CNCD, Danny/TBL, Facet/TBL & Lemon, 
Bifrost/Loonies, Peachy/Haujobb, Noogman/Scoopex, Rodney/TBL, Fame/Floppy,
Mustafa, Zaac/Mankind and a few others.«»
«»
The most popular musicians are;«»
«»
Muffler/Various, Ganja/Nerve Axis, Virgill/Various,
Revisq/Various, Substance/Various, Pink/Abyss, Chromag/Haujobb, Mortimer
Twang/Various, Frequent/Ephidrena, XTD/Mystic, X-Ceed/Independent,
Azazel/TBL, Timer/Mawi, Spectra/Various, Skip/Potion, Curt Cool/Depth,
TZX/Potion, Jazzcat/Pic Saint Loup, Radix/LED, Jogeir/Noiseless and a few
others.«»
«»
Some of the most popular swappers are; Evan/DCS & Mawi, Kempy/Veezya,
Punisher/DarkAge & Nah-Kolor, McR/Mawi, Azzaro/Mawi & Embassy,
Hakon/Whelpz, Zito/DarkAge & Reason, The Hooligan/DCS, Roover/Nah-Kolor,
Lahve/Reason, Lothar/Moons & Appendix, Case/Whelpz & Nah-Kolor,
Adonis/IRIS, Juen/Nah-Kolor and Darkhawk/IRIS to mention
some.«»
«»
The most popular editors are; Ghandy/DarkAge & Gods, Darkhawk/IRIS,
Curt Cool/Depth, Fishwave/Scoopex, McR/Mawi & Appendix, Azzero/Mawi &
Embassy and a few others.«»
«»
That year has brought us some new talents which we hope to see alot more
of in the years that come. The Amiga Inc. seems to be alive again and
various products will hit us soon. The software is now available and
new cards will come early this year. And alot more will come the owners
tell us, if the products already launched are popular. The mag scene seems
to be rising again, we have now 2 chartmags and 2 ordinary mags, we have
many polish mags and soon all will be able to read some of the best
articles in those mags as Coach/Twilight Editors Team will make a mag with
the best
articles translated into english. And many groups are reported to be
working on various productions for the Mekka-Symposium party in April 2001.«»
«»
The year of 2000 can be described as a year with a vage new optimism.
«»
To read predictions about the future, then read the articles
elsewhere in this mag!«»
«»
«c6»Now just a short summery of the amigas released so far;«»
«»
«c7»A500«»
A500+«»
A600«»
A600HD«»
A1000«»
A1000PAL«»
A1000NTSC«»
A1200«»
A1200HD/40«»
A1500«»
A2000 (In Two Versions)«»
A2000HD«»
A2500/20«»
A2500/20«»
A2500UK«»
A3000/16«»
A3000/25«»
A3000T«»
A3000T/40«»
A3000UK«»
A4000/40«»
A4000/030«»
A4000/040/120«»
A4000T«»
Amiga CD32«»
CDTV«»
«»
Then we know there were many plans for amigas to come, and here are
the plans that actually existed but never got released;«»
«»
The Amiga Lorraine«»
Other Amiga designs«»
The A1000+ and A1000Jr«»
CDTV-CR«»
The Amiga 3000+ designs«»
Acutiator System Architecture«»
A4000/020«»
The Commodore RISC Amiga«»
The Amiga 1400«»
The Amiga Nyx«»
CD1200«»
The Mind Walker«»
Escom Power Amiga 97«»
The Amiga ED and UITI«»
The A5000 Mark 1 & 2«»
The A/BOX«»
The Phase 5 pre/box«»
The Siamese PCI Card«»
The Gateway Amiga Convergence Systems«»
Amiga Developer System«»
Amiga MCC«»
AMIRAGE«»
AmigaONE (Nah... just kidding! This will be reality!)«»
«»
Then we have those that did not make it past the concept design stage;«»
«»
Atari 1850XLD«»
Ranger«»
Amiga laptop«»
Sun Amiga Clone (Erm...)«»
Hombre Game Console«»
Amiga DEC ALPHA«»
A1200+«»
Escom systems that were planned for release«»
Micronik M-Box«»
Index Connect«»
BoXeR 2«»
«»
Complete Rumours;«»
«»
Fictional Amigas created by magazines«»
The Amiga name change«»
The Amiga rumours«»
The A1800«»
The 68080-Based Amiga«»
The Amiga G3 Lazarus (Erm...)«»
«»
Amiga Operating Systems;«»
«»
CAOS«»
Windows NT«»
Dec AmigaOS«»
Viscorp AmigaOS«»
AmiBeOS«»
AmiQNX«»
Amiga O.E/«»
«»
and then there were lots of unreleased Amiga devices.«»
«»
At the end of this very long and greatly timeconsuming article,
I just want you all to know that it was mainly written during the nights
and therefore it may be a bit crappy. In any case, I hope you've all
enjoyed it!«»
«»
If you're a true scene maniac wanting to see old and new demos together
with other sceners in a nice atmosphere, then I suggest you visit the
Scene Meeting in 2001! If you're an editor, then I hope this article can
give you some inspiration for other shorter articles concerning the scene
history.«»
«»
Now I just want to wish you all a Very Happy New Year!«»
«»
Signed,«»
«»
Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«e»
