disc.font,9
«ac»«»
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«c2»*** THE HISTORY OF THE SCENE AND THE AMIGA - PART II ***«»
«»
               - The Best Years!«»    
«»«as»
«c6»CONTINUED FROM ABOVE...«»
«»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»
«c7»In 1991 Commodore launched some new amigas aswell. This time it was A500+. It
was different from the first amiga 500 released 4 years earlier in many ways.
It had ECS chipset, kickstart 2 (workbench 2.02) and 1MB memory. It costed 399 pounds.
Also the famous CD32 with 1MB memory got released that year. It was generally an A500
with CD-ROM and 1.3 ROM. It costed 599 pounds. In 1991 the A3000T got launched too.
It was the most powerful amiga so far. It had 2MB memory and a 68030 processor, but costed
extremely much. Infact 4599 dollars! Well, the machine was an expandable A3000 in a tower.«»
«»
In 1991 the whole concept of demo-making got changed. No more successful megademos got
released, only trackloaders. The way a demo got 'build' is more like we are used to today.
So perhaps this was the first year with demos as most sceners know them. The quality of the
demos increased. The groups spent more time on making a demo. Before you were able to code
a decent demo in one month. In 1991 it took about 4-5 months to develop a good one, actually
more like today. Therefore the coders weren't as productive as previously. The bobs were
definately out, and the same were the various filled vector boxes. The most popular
effects this year were vector world, copper and fractals.«»
«»
Since it took a longer period of time to develop a demo, and the quality was much
better, the coders wanted to earn some money of their hard work. The prizes at the
demo-parties were quite high. And actually all the best demos of 1991 got released at
parties, mainly at The Party by Quartex, Silents and Anarchy. And at the 
Summit'91 by Static Bytes and Prologic. Most of the demos also demanded 1MB memory.«»
«»
The first real good demo released this year was Enigma by Pheneomena. I guess most
people that have seen it can't forget it very easily. New effects were vector world,
objects in the vector objects and more. The music by Firefox and Tip was also very good.
A demo which is still one of my favourites also got released that year, but at a party
in Norway. It was the Virtual World by TomSoft (Thomas Landsburg). It presented various
stories with vector objects and very nice background pictures. It also have an amazing
raytracing in the second part along with superb music by Audiomonster. It's just great!
Another great demo which presented stories with vector objects was the winner of The Party 1991
in Denmark, Odyssey by Alcatraz. It was spread on 5 disks, and lasts for half an hour!
Even though Odyssey won The Party I, I think most sceners would agree with me when I say
the second demo was even better. Yes, Hardwired got to be the best demo of the year!
It's still an amazing demo... and rated as one of the best ever.
It has great music, great code, great design and many new good
ideas, like gele vector, twisting scroll and pixel to logo. The men behind this
great production are: The Spy, Deftronic, Jesper Kyd and Mikael Balle. Definately legends.
Other good demos that year were Voyage by Razor 1911 also released at the Party I,
Substance by Quartex and Global Trash by Silents from the Summit'91, Elysium by Sanity,
Alpha and Omega by PMC, Vector Exter by Shining, ICE by Silents and Cube o Matic by Spreadpoint.
Scoopex and Cryptoburners took a rest after their success in 1990, and Defjam died.
In 1991 the demo groups gained control over the scene. The cracking groups cracked the games
for themselves. For hardcore sceners playing games was out.«»
«»
This year the scene got filled with dentros, mentros, sextros, fucktros etc.
But the popularity of such intros faded away at the end of the year. With all these
intros there also came ALOT of packs.«»
«»
This was also the year of Blueboxing! Everyone knew how to do it, and almost everybody
did it. And the sceners were happy as long as it lasted. 1991 was also the big year
year of the boards. BBS showed up everywhere, and soon almost all groups had a BBS HQ.«»
«»
1991 was the first year with real BIG parties. Maybe not as many as previously, but some
very productive ones. Especially The Party, Summit and the Cryptoburners/Dexion parties were real successful.«»
The best groups of that year got to have been Silents, Phenomena, Anarchy, Rebels and Quartex. Also Cave delievered good productions.
As for graphicians, one graphics artist was outstanding, it was UNO! When it comes to musicians,
4-mat was very productive that year. He released alot of modules in all Anarchy productions,
but also in other productions. Although 4-mat got criticized for not making his own samples,
he had his own sound which many liked. Other musicans in the wind that year, were; Tip, Romeo Knight,
Firefox and Heatbeat. The modules had to last longer because of the introduction of
trackmos. Not just a minute like in the megademos, but maybe for 4 or 5 minutes. They also
had to show variety. Something which made the general standard of the modules increase.
Crystal Symphonies I by Phenomena and Turmoil by Silents were probably the best music disks.
In addition to that, the effects/music fit more together than in the past.«»
«»
When it comes to the mags, the German scene lost its top position. Cracker Journal,
Hackmag, McDisk, I.C.E. and basically also D.I.S.C. were from Germany. Even though some of
those mags were at its best in 1991 (like the mag you're reading now), the nr.1 mag around
was definately still Zine from Switzerland. But good mags like Top Secret and Stolen Data
got introduced to scene and got lots of supporters. And lets not forget that the first issue of
RAW got released in November that year...«»
«»
Anyway, 1991 was certainly the year of trackloaders!«»
«»
In 1992 Commodore continued to launch new and better amigas. First out was the
A600 with 1MB memory and it only costed 399 pounds. It was just a smaller A500+
without a numeric keypad. It had PCMCIA slot. Anyway, the A600 was not a very big success.
The A4000/O40 however was a great success. It had a 68040 processor and 6MB memory!
It had kickstart 3 and above all AGA chipset. But it was very expensive. Infact it costed
2466 pounds! Also the A4000/030 got launched, it had a 68030 processor as the main difference.
And then the most popular amiga in addition to the A500 got released. It was of course
the A1200 with 2MB chipmemory for 399 pounds. The A1200 was the first low-end 32 bit amiga.
It had the 68020EC processor, AGA chipset and PCMCIA slot. It was not before the year after
sceners began to buy the computer however.«»
«»
1992 is by some sceners described as the best scene year ever! Hardwired had set the standard with
its smooth & continious changing between parts of the demo. Also the music fitting perfect to
the demo was something new. Many groups started to copy and improve this new thing called
design! Many groups managed to create their own special style. Two very good examples of that
are Andromeda and Melon Dezign. Yes, in 1992 everyone opened their eyes for design in demos.«»
«»
There were many active groups which created alot of new effects. One of the most
active, and perhaps the best one was Anarchy. They released Spring Melodies, Legalise it I & II,
In The Kitchen and Flower Power this year, in addition to their mag. Melon Dezign released
Human Target, Prism, SOS and The Bomb Intro to mention a few. And Andromeda released
their DOS, Multica, Point Blank and Mirror. At last, but not least... Spaceballs released two
good demos with Wayfarer and State of The Art which was also attractive to non-sceners and
was showed on MTV! State of the art is a dance-demo which mainly featured girls dancing
to techno music. It was a totally brand new idea and many liked it. Some also disliked it,
and didn't understand why it won the Party II. In any case, it's a very entertaining
demo created by Lone Starr and Travolta. The most original demo of 1992! Other good demos
that year were WOC by Sanity. Especially coders enjoyed the skills of Chaos. The Party II
also gave us 3d demo II by Anarchy, at the Gathering'92 by Deadline & Crusaders, Spaceballs released their
legendary Wayfarer demo, and also Andromeda their great DOS demo. At the summer in the
Hurricane party Kefrens released Guardian Dragon II. At the same party also some other
good demos got out, from both Analog (Falling Up) and Silents (Xpose) and of course In The Kitchen by Anarchy
as mentioned above. Then we have Wicked Sensation by TRSI, Delirium by Complex, Sound Vision by Reflect and
Tetris intro by Melon Dezign.«»
«»
This year some very good musicdisks got released. I guess they are still considered some of the
best ever. I'm mainly talking about Mirror from Andromeda (musicians: Mr.Man, Interphase, Lizard),
Jesterday by Sanity (musician: Jester) and Crystal Symphonies II by Phenomena (musicians: Tip & Mantronix).
The best musicians that year were Tip & Mantronix because of their Crystal Symphonies and many
good demo-tunes. But later on they became quite unpopular among some sceners. Anyway, many
people will remember their good music in both the Enigma demo and the C.S. series. Other musicians among
the best were; Moby/Dream Dealers for winning the music-compo at the Party II and his modules for
D.D. productions, Mr.Man for his tunes in Mirror and Andromeda releases, Lizardking/Alcatraz,
Jester/Sanity for Jesterday, Nuke and Audiomonster/Melon Dezign.«»
«»
Also some good slideshows were released this year, especially Prism by Melon Dezign was good.
But also Masterpieces from Kefrens and Forgotten by Mirage is worth mentioning. However, the
new nr.graphician was Facet/Anarchy. He made alot for all Anarchy productions, but also productions
from other groups, like for RAW. UNO hadn't made anything for ages. Other good graphicians were
of course Cougar (which did the DISC graphics at the time) and Rank.«»
«»
The best coder at the time was probably Spy, as he was the main-coder behind
Hardwired by Silents & Crionics. But other good coders were Dan, Performer, Chaos
and of course many others.«»
«»
When it comes to the ruling group, there were quite many good ones. Especially Anarchy
released much. But also Silents, Andromeda, Spaceballs, Kefrens and Melon were extremely good.«»
«»
In the mag world... RAW was certainly the new nr.1. The other mags more or less faded
away during that year, including Zine which died and D.I.S.C. which got big problems.
The EuroChart was also in trouble, but Crusaders finally gave it over to Static Bytes which
continued the charts.«»
«»
The various parties had lots of visitors, new records were set at The Party with 2500
visitors, Assembly with 700 visitors, The New Year Conference with 400 and at The Gathering too.«»
«»
Well, 1992 was definately the year design was in focus.«»
«»
In 1993 Commodore launched their CD32. It had 2MB memory, 68020EC processor and
costed 399 pounds, just like the A1200. Generally it was an A1200 without a keyboard, but
with double speed CD drive and kickstart 3.1. When we released D.I.S.C. 10 we made sure
it worked on that machine too, as the only mag at the scene since it had 3
seperated systems; keyboard, mouse and JOYSTICK. But then, not many sceners
got CD32 nowadays.«»
«»
As the AGA chipset got introduced the previous year, most of us expected
that 1993 would bring us lots of great AGA productions. But that didn't
happen. Infact there wasn't released any good AGA demos before the end of the year,
and they didn't exactly take the AGA chipset to its limits either. In
addition to that the other demos were not increasing the quality much compared to the
latest years. No, the new trend in 1993 was the use of techno music in
almost all productions. The more positive aspects of 1993 was that the
eastern countries had a breakthrough! Especially Poland began to get attention
from the other scene countries...«»
«»
Again it was pretty clear that the nordic countries had the most active demo scene.
Except from these countries, only some north-european ones, like Germany and The Netherlands,
came up with good productions. There were not much activity in countries like France,
Italia, Austria and Switzerland this year.«»
«»
All the best releases were out at the 3 big parties; The Gathering (Norway),
The Assembly (Finland) and The Party (Denmark). Even though the two first parties
had good organization, none of them could be compared to The Party'93 which was
way ahead in visitors and professionality. Also the party hall was great! This party
is perhaps the best party ever organized, at least there are not many that can
compare. Maybe only The Party 4?«»
«»
At the Gathering'93 I guess the best demo of 1993 got released. It was Desert Dreams
by Kefrens. Some say it got a boring introduction (with info about
pyramids), but afterwards the parts are really
good. Especially the saw-effect impressed many. Also the second demo there was
very good. It was a Sim, Drake & Codex production and called Speed. I think it's
a very underrated demo. It got a very cool introduction, with fast effects... lots
of faces and objects. Maybe a tiny pschedelic... and it's not loosing much ground
compared to todays oldstyle-demos, like the ones released at the LTP4 party in France late
this summer. Just check out Speed from 1993 and PsychoKiller from Spaceballs in 2000.
I don't know who's pissing on their rivals, hehe. At TG'93 Spaceballs by the way
released the demo Mobile - Destination Unknown, and that one was quite good. Also Q.E.D.
from Talent was ok.«»
«»
At Assembly the same year, Pygme Projects released their Extension demo. I hadn't
heard of that group before this release, but certainly paid attention afterwards.
It's a good demo, and especially the vector cities are great. The Virtual Dreams
demo 242 also is one of the better demos that year. The packing routine that shows
a digitized movie on the screen, is good. The Romantic demo from Melon Dezign also
got some attention.«»
«»
At the Party 3 there were lots of releases. Spaceballs released the follow-up to
State Of The Art, it's called 9 Fingers. It's a dance-demo which especially non-sceners
appreciate. Anyway, the idea was not as original anymore and the demo only came
4th in the competition. The winner was Origin by Complex. The first in a row of good Complex
productions. This was also one of the first good AGA demos ever. The demo that came
second was also an AGA demo, it's called Full Moon and was done by Virtual Dreams/Fairlight.
This is also a good demo worth to have a look at. The third demo got alot of
attention... it's Arte by Sanity! It became very popular both for the nice design and also
the code, and ruled the various charts for some time.«»
«»
At a smaller party, Cebit'93, Sanity also released their Terminal Fuckup demo
but it didn't have the same standard as Arte. At that party TRSI also released their
only real demo that year, and many sceners got disappointed.«»
«»
Some other good demos that year were Groovy by Lemon, Technological Death by Mad Elks and
Interference by Sanity.«»
«»
The improvements in 1993 was in the intro area. We got a few very good intros this
year, and that was a big improvement from 1992. Especially the winning intro at
Gathering called 40k Intro by Lemon and of course ChaosLand by Virtual Dreams, the
winner at The Party, were very good. Also Virtual Dreams and Stellar released some
good intros that year, at Assembly.«»
«»
As for the groups, the old giants Scoopex and Silents were silent, and people
expected them to be dead.  Lemon which got a warm welcome at the scene after
getting all the active Anarchy members, released some very good demos (Groovy,
Rink A Pink etc) and intros. But at christmas the group died.«»
«»
The coder of the year got to be Chaos, even though he didn't code very much.
But Arte and his comments in all mags made him very popular. Tsunami/VD, Microfroce/Sanity,
Lonestarr/Spaceballs and Laxity/Kefrens were also good ones in 1993 among others. Effects like zooming & rotating
started to get popular and goraud objects too, in addition to some texture mapping.
But these effects got more popular the year after.
Glenz-objects were also used in many productions. The same with dots and some fractals, together
with lightsourced vectors.«»
In the graphics department, there were lots of good ones this year. The graphicians
in Lemon were good, especially Facet had a good year with the graphics/design in
all Lemon productions. But also Danny was good. Also the graphicians in Complex
had a good year, Hotshot, Jugi and Reward. The same with graphicians in Andromeda,
Fairfax, Archmage and Decker. The ones in Sanity were at their best this year too,
especially Cougar and Ra. And then a few other also made some good pictures and
design, like Peachy/Masque, Devilstar/Silents, Suny/Movement, D-mage/VD and Mack/Melon Dezign.
The slideshows to watch were Memorial Design by Melon Dezign and Revelations by Cryptoburners.«»
«»
There were many good modules and musicians this year also. Especially the Sanity
musicans were doing good. Both Jester and Moby had very special styles. Jester was at
the top of most charts because of his good discotunes, which people recognized at once
in both the Sanity productions but also in other productions. Moby also made lots
og good modules, and one of them was the famous winner tune from The Party 3 called
Elektrik Funk. Also the Andromeda muscians did quite good this year, with high rankings
at most parties. Especially Mr.Man, but also Interphace and Lizard did good. It was also
a good year for Dizzy. He managed to win the Assembly that year.
Vinnie of Spaceballs did good too with winning the Gathering and having his music in the
9 Fingers demo. Chromag also released his Chromagic music disk besides composing lots
of modules and do pretty good in the competitions that year. Jogeir Liljedahl/Noiseless
won the Rendezvous party in 1993 with his famous Guitar Slinger module and released a
musicdisk. Also some of the
old guys were doing pretty good, like Uncle Sam and Romeo Knight. Other musicians which were
doing good, were Audiomonster, Strobo/Stellar, Groo/C & C, Nuke/Lemon, Chorous & Sid, HMZ/Alcatraz,
Doh/Cryptoburners and of course Lizardking which released the great Lizardkings' Theme
that year and Memorial Songs I. In addition to that musicdisk, Dizzy Tunes II and
Chromagic were the best ones.«»
«»
When it comes to mags... Not one single issue of D.I.S.C. got released. All the real
old legends had vanished. R.A.W. was definately the best mag around. But also mags as
Stolen Data, Grapevine, Top Secret, Upstream, Cemetary News and Suicide were popular.«»
Anyway, 1993 was the year when the techno music hit the scene very hard.«»
«»
In 1994 Commmodore went bankruptcy, and didn't manage to release any new amiga.
After this new owners were presented every year. But now in the year of 2000 we
have at least got a temporary solution which brought Commodore in the hands of
true amiga fanatics. However, the plans for the next generation amiga didn't impress
the demo-scene. Well, I won't write more about the owners of Commodore in this article.«»
«»
1994 was also the year when AGA got its final breakthrough. Some real good AGA
demos got released, but the real introduction of AGA also had its negative sides.
The scene got divided. Some estimates conclude that AGA actually halfed the demo-scene.
The old sceners which mostly had A500s, didn't get to see the new productions. And
instead of upgrading, they more or less left the scene. There were still some new
non-AGA productions, but they weren't many. And the fastfile system made it hard for
A500 owners too. So the introduction of AGA made it easier for all the sceners that
weren't 100% into the scene to quit. And ever since, it has been a constant battle to
upgrade to see the latest productions. So every year sceners that won't upgrade, leave
the scene or just hang out at #amigascne.«»
«»
As AGA got standard in 1994, it also ment that most people had A1200 or A4000. And
those computers had of course a harddisk as standard. This changed the making of demos
quite much. Before every demo was trackloaded. Now more and more demos were made
as executable-files and HD-installable.«»
As the previous years, the best demos got released at the major parties.
Two of the best demos that year were made by Andromeda. They won the Gathering'94 party
with Sequential and the Party 4 with Nexus 7. Two very good demos done by different
coders. Sequential was trackloaded if I remember correctly, but Nexus 7 was an executable
one-file demo which was HD-installable. It's the best Andromeda demo ever. It had 12 major
effects in addition to some good part links. Some of the effects were totally new;
like the discolight-ball which caused extacy among the audience at The Party 4 and impressed
many. Also the natural motion routine was great, in addition to the 3d slice sphere, the motion blur and
goraud pulse. From the beginning  to the end it was almost a religious experience presented by
the coders Mr.Hyde and Dr.Jekyll.
The smooth change from effect to effect with those part-links and perfectly fitting
music made the demo a winner. Infact, it won the party with twize as many votes as the
runner-up. But the other demos presented weren't bad either. Like the Psycedelic demo
from Virtual Dreams. It had lots of good effects made by Dr.Skull. He was probably the
most active coder that year, as he also coded Love. The winner of the South-Sealand
demo competition. In addition to that, he helped making the Breath Taker demo which
came second at the Assembly party. The demo which came third at the Party, was called
Motion and made by the new crew called Bomb. They were the French members of Complex which
also won the Saturne 2 party earlier that year with their Real demo, but they had left a few
months earlier. And the demo that came 4th, Soulkitchen, was presented by the legendary Silents.
It was good too, but all I remember is that one routine was almost the same as one in the
HardWired demo released 3 years earlier...  anyway, this routine was worse than the original.
Another old crew, Rebels, came 5th with WhammerSlammer. It wasn't very good, just a weak copy
of their great Switchblade demo released earlier that year. I guess all remember the last
routine which impressed many; the roallercoaster. There were alot of expectation towards
the demo from Sanity. People were wondering what Chaos could come up with after his popular
Arte demo. And Chaos presented a half-finished demo (the routines from Mr.Pet and most of the gfx
was missing) and many sceners got disappointed. The demo had lots of zooming/rotating,
and only came 8th. Personally I think it's underrated, even though it had some weak parts
there were lots of effects and especially the morph-routine was very good. An ordinary old plasma-effect was bad.
In 1995 a new-version
of the Roots demo appeared. It had the missing gfx and some new routines, but wasn't much better.
Sanity was a sinking ship which faded away after this production. A true legend with lots of
great members died. I also got to mention the demo Beyond the Future by
Union which was one
of the best polish contributions in 1994. It had some goraud shadings, cool
cities, lots of textures and objects, tunnel and many surprising moves from
one routine to another. I also liked the end part with viewing the effects
again while playing a good endtune. Another great polish contribution
this year was Wit Premium by Freezers. It came second at the Gelloween 94
party earlier that year. Wit Premium is a speed demo with a very fast city
displayed, a lightsourced vector transforming into a textured cube, it got
some zooming/rotating effects and a cool axe-routine at the end. Back to
the Party 4...
The intros at The Party 4 weren't that good really, but they had more
effects than ever thanks to better cruncher-routines. One of the most popular groups in 1994,
Polka Brothers, won the intro competition and came second in the wild-compo. Polka Brothers was a pretty new group with members
mainly from Kefrens. But later on members from all kind of groups joined, like the German section of
Complex for instance. I also liked the Doodle-doo intro from Virtual Dreams, McIntro by Fresh Prince
and Nitte by Passion. In any case, The Party 4 was the best
party of the year with lots of visitors and great productions in addition to extremely good
organization & atmosphere.
At the Assembly, Stellar released Mindflow.
A really good demo which won that competition. It got landscape, textured
cube, textured mapped routines like in 'Doom', fractal zooming, a
blurr-like tunnel and more. There were also some other good demos there,
like Drool This by Parallax and Ilyad by the old crew Alcatraz. At this party some cool intros
got released, like G-force by Pygme Projects, Darkroom by Stellar and Falurecolour by Razor 1911.
But the Assembly didn't belong to the amiga sceners anymore, the PC people had taken over
the place with more than 60% of the 2000 visitors. The Gathering party also had
some more good demos in addition to Sequential. The legendary Cryptoburners released two
demos, and Brain-State-In-A-Box was pretty good. Polka Brothers released Friday at eight in typical
polka-style too. Q.E.D 2 was released by Talent, and it was pretty good too. Anyway, the demos
didn't have the same standard as The Party later that year. The intros were ok, especially the
ones from Stone Arts and the one from Spaceballs. However, the party was not considered to be
a success even though there were more visitors than ever. I remember I wrote a harsh party
report, mainly because of the lack of electricity and cold sleeping place. If this party
had been arranged in 2000 and was exactly the same, it would have been considered to be
a great success as The Gathering also is overrun by PC people these days. Other parties with
good releases from groups like Complex, Virtual Dreams, Polka Brothers, Bomb, Oxygene,
Dreamdealers etc. were Saturne 2, South-Sealand and 3S.«»
«»
The effects that were IN this year; the doom-effect, more fractal landscape,
much raytracing and animations, goraud, blur, 3D rotated shade dots, lots of texturemapping and
zooming/rotating (like jelly junkie - texturemapped twisting cube), big spheres, flame-plasma, intel outside and
more. Torous-routines, glenz, landscapes, ordinary vector-world were on the way out, but still used
in some productions good productions.«»
«»
Packmags which had become very popular was at its best in 1994, and the best one of them
all was definately NeverMind by Mr.King. The year after he and his pack disappeared. Another
good pack was A Pack Of Fun by IRIS.«»
«»
The best mags were RAW and Upstream, and the newcomer ROM. In addition to mags
like Propaganda and Abnormalia. The other former top mags faded away this year.
Headline, a promising mag the year before, released its second and last issue this year.
D.I.S.C. made a weak comeback at the summer after around 3 years of delay!
The best charts around was the EuroChart and The Charts.«»
«»
The most popular coders that year, were of course Mr.Hyde & Dr.Jekyll of Andromeda
(HeadX never got the same fame), Skull/Virtual Dreams, Gengis/Bomb, Zulu & Grey/Rebels,
and Chaos/Sanity to mention a few.«»
«»
As for graphicians, this was the best year ever for Fairfax/Andromeda. In January
that year he released the fantastic slideshow Seven Seas. It's a great example of
real pixel-art. Fairfax also won The Gathering, just as he had won the Rendezvous party
the year before. The other Andromeda graphicians did good.
Peachy/Masque also had a great year with winning the Party 4. If you
compare his picture with the others, you soon find out that he had a quite different way
of making a picture. It's a huge picture. Cougar made some great gfx for the Roots demo,
and was still going strong. Fade1 released the other good slideshow that year, entiteled
Never Liked Uno. It got great music done by Twilight & Doc Holiday and of course nice graphics,
he he. Also Tony/Razor 1911 had a good year with gfx in Razor productions and coming second
at Gathering. Devilstar/Virtual Dreams & Polka Brothers had several good pictures also that
year. Louie (of Insane then) made some good pictures too, along with R.W.O. Other good ones
were Facet/Spaceballs, Ra/Sanity, Reward/Complex, Teevan/Rebels and Fiver/TRSI among others.«»
«»
The most popular musicans, were still Jester and Moby of Sanity. But also Lizarking/Razor 1911,
Audiomonster/Melon, Dice/Polka Brothers, Mr.Man & Interphace/Andromeda, Chrorus&Sid/Jewels,
Dreamer/TRSI and Xtd/Mystic/TRSI to mention some. The Xtd module Reassurance released at
The Intel Outside party is great. In addition to making modules for many Complex/Bomb-productions,
Clawz also released a musicdisk with Delorian called Seducation. One of the few good ones that
year. Viktoria by Virgill/TRSI was the other musicdisk I can remember.
Doh/Cryptoburners did good again with winning the S3 party. The last musician
I'm going to mention is Hithansen/Rednex which won the Party that year. Many sceners
accused him for stealing the refrain of the song from Jimi Hendrix "Hey, Joe!" and the
end of the song from The Doors "Light my fire", so some of the glory disappeared.«»
«»
People started to say the amiga-scene was dying... especially the old sceners which
tought the scene was better in both quality and quantity before. And they didn't like
the parties. Yes, there were less sceners as many of the older sceners didn't upgrade.
But the demos were really great this year and I think it's one of the best years ever.
The style hasn't changed that much the latest years.
There were lots of parties and releases, but yes... the PC started to get a greater influence.
IRC also started to get the sceners attention.«»
«»
In any case, 1994 was certainly the year of AGA!!!«»
«»
«»
«c6»TO BE CONTINUED BELOW... USE THE ARROW KEYS TO READ THE REST OF THE HISTORY!«»
«»
«e»
