discnew.font,8
«»
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«c2»«ac»NO MAGIC BUT ICING SUGAR«»
«»
«c1»By Fishwave/Scoopex^DCS«»
«»
«as»«c7»The scene needs debates. Debates about demos, about the structures of the scene and about individual people. Such
debates take place on the IRC, in personal discussions or in «c6»diskmags. «c7»As for the latter, diskmags in particular
can spread «c6»a scener's point of view «c7»all over the scenish populated world. No matter whether "his" point of view
is right or wrong, if such a differentiation is possible after all. One could fear that people abuse diskmags
to brainwash the readers. Usually that's not the case, since diskmags are open for all sceners and thus pros
and cons are confronted and fight out the discussion.«»
«»
Well, that's how it uses to be on «c6»Amiga «c7»actually. The diskmag culture is still strong on this platform and we
still got rules - «c6»unwritten scene law! «c7»On the PC some things however work different. There the scene got one
absolutely dominating magazine - «c6»Hugi. «c7»Practically seen it is the only mouthpiece for all those who got some
opinions for the public. With such a status the editorial staff should take care of what is written on their
pages - it's too easy to abuse this power.«»
«»
And that's what they did! Or better what he did: well known «c6»Magic of Nah-Kolor. «c7»The evil seducer who tries
to deceive sceners and take profit of it. As said, «c6»on Amiga such foul play doesn't work «c7»- so what does Magic do?
He settles over to the PC and infiltrates «c6»Hugi. «c7»Let him go many might think, finally he's off the Amiga scene now
he got no more mag to write for. The problem is that Magic continues to write about the Amiga - in Hugi, the
PC diskmag. Ain't that absurd? What do these PC guys care about Amiga? Especially, what do they care about
Magic's personal wars? You see, «c6»this guy has gone mad.«»
«»
«c7»In the latest issue of Hugi Magic starts his «c6»new battle «c7»against the makers of Devotion. HIS former diskmag that
was stolen by Wade and Sane with help of Ghandy and me, Fishwave. He states that the ex. Seenpoint staff couldn't
wait to take over Devotion for being such a marvellous magazine. He further says, that he really feels honored by the
behaviour of the ex. Seenpoint staff, those «c6»"arrogant assholes who think they're top of the cream" «c7»(to speak with Magic's
thoughts).«»
Usually the people that have been accused wouldn't care, me included. I don't mind Magic's lies, I don't mind
his twisted thoughts. But to speak the truth: «c6»Seenpoint and Devotion ain't twins. «c7»These two magazine have nothing
in common. Especially I never was truly involved in this project. My articles were written one week before
the deadline, so neither did I take part in the organisation nor did I have decent influence on the content and thus
the image of Devotion. As for Seenpoint I was the (cruel) dictator. Therefore I simply cannot accept Magic's
statement that I (Seenpoint) took over Devotion, cause my interest in Devotion was and is zero. «c6»Magic drags Seenpoint's
name in the mud, and I won't accept that!«»
«»
«c7»But hey, why such crying for a dead magazine? No, that's not the point. As I said Magic's "criticism" was published
in Hugi. Furthermore he got main-ed «c6»Adok «c7»on his side who seemingly was convinced of Magic's "arguments". The consequence
is that those two guys, with THE PC magazine, run «c6»propaganda «c7»against us, a bunch of Amiga sceners. PC sceners
who don't know the Amiga scene, or to be precisely: do not have the possibilities to check out e.g. Amiga magazines,
simply gotta believe the lines in Hugi. There is a clear improper use of their position.«»
«»
Personally, if I ever should start a new diskmag it would be on PC. And I certainly don't need negative lies about me
spread by Magic. Furthermore, everyone who doesn't share Magic's opinion might suffer from his new job at Hugi. I think
Magic has crossed the line. He has broken the rules. Luckily I am reading Hugi, eventhough it doesn't belong to the scene
I participate in. Otherwise I wouldn't have know any of the «c6»Magic's mud throwing. «c7»But you could be the next - and
you even don't have a clue about it!«»
«»
«e»
