discnew.font,8
«»
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«c2»«ac»CHIP «l:music/billigakostymer.tp3»ATTACK«le»«»
«»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»In the past there were quite many «c6»chippacks «c7»around. Apart from the
chip-modules they usually also got a section with various stuff; like news,
adverts, partyinvitations, some articles and more. But the latest years
there haven't been that many releases. Some old chippacks have continued to
come out now and then, like «c6»Digital Chips and Save Da Vinyl, «c7»but none can
be described as regular releases.«»
«»
However, now it seems like the chippacks are returning to the scene. «c6»It's
the new trend! «c7»In addition to «c6»Digital Chips «c7»from Apathy and «c6»Save Da Vinyl «c7»from
Mawi, also «c6»Embrion «c7»from Veezya continues. And the latest time also a few
new chippacks have hit the scene, and more are planned to come.«»
«»
In 2001 there have been released two issues of «c6»Noise From Heaven «c7»by IRIS.
And so far this year there have been released one issue of the pack. It's a totally
new chipmusic pack with nice design. It's being compiled by Dascon/IRIS and
is ment to be released every 1-2 months. It looks quite much like normal
chippacks with the chips (obviously), some articles and a small chart.«»
«»
Another new chippack which appeared in 2001, is «c6»Liquidation by Liquid
Skies Records. «c7»It's a much smaller chippack than the usual chippacks
around, and also much more special. It doesn't contain other stuff than 
the chips and it's mainly a small window which pops up where you can select
and play the chips you want. The compiler is Makak/Liquid
Skies^Reason. This chippack is also planned to be released reguarly. So far
two issues of this new chippack has been released.«»
«»
At the Spoletium party at the end of November, yet another chippack saw the
light of day. It's called «c6»ChipMonks «c7»and it's done by Trinity. The pack
really reminds me of the oldskool packs. It got a menu panel with a
selector formed like a stereorack, and of course a scroller. I bet we'll
get to see many releases of this new chippack as well.«»
«»
A month earlier, Industry, released a new chippack called «c6»Her Numbness.«»
«c7»And even more chippacks will hit the scene! Rumours are indicating that
«c6»DarkAge «c7»will release a new chippack coded by StingRay. When this pack will
be out is uncertain at the moment. Also Gods are planning to give new life
into their old «c6»Chip In Paris «c7»chippack. It's supposed to be renamed to Chip
In Europe and will probably be released at the end of 2002. Appendix have
decided to reintroduce their old chip-series «c6»Psychol «c7»too. Apart from this,
we've heard about some more chippacks that perhaps will hit the scene soon.
So all you chiplovers out there have something to look forward to! The
scene is hit by «c6»CHIP ATTACK!«»
«»
«c7»A hint for you that enjoy chiptunes...  try clicking on the headline of
this article, and a surprise might appear!«»
«»
«e»
