discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»A RIPPER REVEALED!«»
«»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»During the scene history alot of sceners have been tempted to «c6»cheat «c7»their
way to appreciation. I would think most sceners enjoy that other sceners
like their work, but not all actually «c6»ripp «c7»other sceners work to get their
easy fame. Unfortunately some HAS exploited the work of others though.
Infact quite many famous sceners have been caught either scanning pictures,
ripping sources or using animations. And of course many have ripped samples
from other musicians without giving them the credits. Past magazines with
good journalists managed to «c6»expose the rippers «c7»and tell everyone about
them. The latest years we haven't seen many of these articles though. But NOW
it's time to reveal a new ripper!«»
«»
About all musicians start making modules with samples from other musicians,
but with time they want to create their own sound and make their own
samples. Many never actually buy a sampler, so they continue using other
sceners samples. This is ok as long as they give the other musicians the
credits for the samples. But some musicians just ripp other sceners samples
and claim they are their own. This is quite bad, but the things I'll write
about below is much worse!«»
«»
I guess it's hard for musicians to get «c6»attention «c7»unless they're a part of a
famous group. Infact, even then it can be quite hard getting heard. So it's even
worse for newcomers to get any attention. To get your modules used in your
group productions is not very easy if there are many other musicians in
that group.«»
«»
So I don't know what happened with this scener I'm talking about...
perhaps he got inspired by «c6»Devotion 2 «c7»(which used a Chromag module first
used in Generation 25 some years ago) and also wanted to use an old module by a
famous musician? I surely don't know!«»
«»
In any case, the crew «c6»Vortex «c7»which is a group with members in the UK,
Sweden, Germany, The Netherlands, Italy and even Malta and Hong Kong, 
released a slideshow called «c6»Waiting for the World «c7»at the very end of July last year.
The slideshow was done by some of the new graphicians which joined earlier
the same year and some older members. We should of course welcome productions
from all groups, good or not so good. This slideshow isn't very good (buggy
code and mostly below average graphics), but
Vortex should get credit for actually releasing something so rare as a
«c6»slidehsow. «c7»Earlier last year they released a musicdisk too. But what we can't
accept is when sceners try to cheat their way to appreciation, and that's
just what happened with the release of Waiting for the World.«»
«»
As written above, it has happened many times that musicians have ripped
other collegues samples, but when I loaded WFTW I at once discovered that
«c6»the entire module was ripped!«»
«c7»The module played was done by Lizardking and called «c6»Memorial Theme. «c7»It was
made back in the winter of 1993. However, in WFTW the module was renamed to
«c6»Millenium «c7»and the credits for the music was given to «c6»STUNNER «c7»of Vortex! 
I can't even believe that someone tries to take the credits for a module
done by another musician a long time ago! But well, «c6»the D.I.S.C. team «c7»have
exposed another RIPPER among us. Also in the end scroller of WFTW you can
read what «c6»STUNNER «c7»has to say about the module... «c6»"I composed it...", «c7»he
says! At the homepage of Vortex you can read «c6»"Waiting For The World
features some stunning original images from our busy team of artists and has a
great soundtrack from the master of mod, Stunner".
«c7»Hmm... even if Memorial Theme is getting quite old these days, some
sceners still recognize the work of old respected sceners like «c6»Lizardking.
«c7»If you've heard the module Doskpop by Lizardking from 1994, you also discover it got
some of the same patterns as his Memorial Theme module. The Memorial Theme module
you can also find in the great «c6»Memorial Songs II «c7»musicdisk by Razor 1911.«»
«»
But why did Stunner ripp this module and claim it was his work? He's said
to be a real friendly scener which could have managed to make quality
modules of his own. I can't understand it. In any case, there are no excuses
for what the organizer and musician of Vortex has done here. It won't even
help that Stunner sent some special greetings to my groupmate Punisher in the
WFTW slideshow nor that he supported D.I.S.C. with filling our votesheets.
«c6»Stunner «c7»is nothing else than a pure «c6»RIPPER...«»
«»
«c7»And what's left to be said... just the slogan of Vortex:«»
«c6»Don't be afraid, we are the best...   «c7»YES, you are the best in «c6»RIPPING!«»
«»
«c3»D.I.S.C. - «c6»ENTERTAINMENT AT ANY COST!«»
«»
«e»
