discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»WHY RECYCLE?«»
«»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»We have more than one time witnessed that «c6»a few sceners start a trend «c7»and
the rest follow. One coder began coding bobs, and the rest kept doing that
for years until ulitmate bobs were achieved. Then the various vectors
became a trend; line vectors, filled vectors, inconvex vectors, glenz vectors etc. 
We've had the trackloader trend, phongs, bumpmapping, the animations, and much much
more.«»
«»
Even though we claim that the «c6»Amiga scene is so much more creative than any
other scene, «c7»it's also obvious that most of the sceners here copy
eachother one way or another. But of course they add their own personal
touch to it all, and there's nothing wrong with that. And once it an while,
there are someone that come up with something «c6»very innovative and creative
«c7»despite the actual trend. One of the best examples of this is for instance
when Spaceballs released their «c6»State Of The Art «c7»demo.«»
«»
The more boring trend the latest years is the socalled «c6»3d trend, «c7»when new
innovative «c6»2d effects are abandoned. «c7»The same 3d engine is used time after
time with some new textures. Even though innovation is lost, I guess most
people still got impressed by watching «c6»Lapsuus «c7»for instance.«»
«»
You may think this mentioned above is sad, but it's infact not that bad.
Much worse, after my opinion, is when the same coders manage to «c6»recycle «c7»his
«c6»own effects «c7»in production after production.«»
«»
I guess most of you have seen the amazing intros done by non other than
«c6»Exploder «c7»for instance? Personally I think he's the most talented coder
around nowadays. He has managed to create lots of small effects with an
incredible speed. And the best part of it, most of his productions work
on a 020 with 4mb fast! All of the Exploder productions like «c6»Freedom,
Revision, Wish, Gap, Dust, Urine, Incision, Humus 1, Humus 2, Paradize@08, Paradize@10,
Dolphin Dreams «c7»etc. are just great.«»
«»
But the last year it has become a bit sad to watch a new Exploder
production. Not because of bad quality. No, not at all. The productions
still show «c6»amazing skills. «c7»But the problem is that you've seen about all
his effects hundreds of times already. A new intro is just more or less the
same effects in another order.«»
«»
I know it can be hard to come up with more new effects for a 4k intro for
example, but then it should be better to release a demo where many new
ideas could be tested and even nice graphics added. «c6»It can't be very
rewarding «c7»for Exploder himself either to just work on the same effects
in each production. Just look at productions such as «c6»Humus 1, Humus 2,
Paradize@08 and Paradize@10. «c7»They are not much different at all.«»
«»
When talking about Exploder and his crews, it's also a bit confusing, as it
seems like «c6»Push Entertainment have some sub-groups «c7»like the 3 Amigos, PH-ENT
etc. which consist of the same people. And in the majority of productions
the credits are lacking as well. Therefore I can understand why some
organizers at certain parties have disqualified those Push Entertainment
productions. It's no use giving «c6»fuckings «c7»to the organizers, like it's done
in Real-Paradize, when you're to blame yourself.«»
«»
In any case, it's not only the great Exploder which is recycling his
routines nowadays. I just used him as an example. There are of course
several other coders which do the same, but it's perhaps not so obvious as
in the case of Exploder. To be fair, it also has to be said that the latest
intro Dolphin Dreams looks quite different from his previous intros. So
perhaps the recycling has ended?«»
«»
I'm not saying YOU should «c6»reinvent the concept of demo-making, «c7»but some
innovation and creativity would be nice...  and hopefully we get to see
something impressive at the Mekka-Symposium party. And hey... I'm not
talking about another animation... ;-)«»
«»
«c6»Why settle with less when you're capable to do so much better?«»
«»
«e»
