discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»ANOTHER EUROCHART TAKEOVER«»
«»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»It's now over 12 years ago since the first issue of the later so famous
chart, «c6»The EuroChart, «c7»got released. And during this period it has been in
the hands of four groups.«»
«»
It all started back in 1989 when the famous norwegian crew «c6»Crusaders
«c7»decided to make their own chart in hard competition with so many other
charts at that time. The first issue got released in November the same year
with «c6»El Cubo and Dr.Awesome «c7»as main-editors. The code was also done by El
Cubo.«»
«»
Crusaders were a bunch of very active and creative sceners, and they had a
special plan with the «c6»EuroChart. «c7»They wanted to release the EuroChart
reguarly and with new graphics in each issue. And that's also what
happened. From the first issue in «c6»November 1989 «c7»until their last issue,
nr.14, in «c6»January 1992, «c7»they managed to release a new issue every second
month! And it didn't take long before the EuroChart became very popular and
got its audience.«»
«»
The highligts in this period is perhaps issue 6 with the well-known
Coca-Cola look alike design which also illustrated the various paper
votesheets at that time. And the EuroChart also got a boost in popularity
after issue 8 when the «c6»EuroNews «c7»section got introduced with the famous «c6»Ken
stories «c7»by Outtasight.«»
«»
Anyway, in 1992 the Crusaders didn't have the time nor energy to continue
releasing their famous chart. And all good things have to come to an end,
or do they? No, Crusaders wanted their chart to live on and the first
EuroChart takeover was a fact! It was handed over to the group «c6»Static
Bytes.«»
«»
«c7»After a minor delay, the first issue under the Static Bytes label, issue 15
that is, got released in «c6»July 1992. «c7»The new coder and main-editor was now
the famous dane «c6»Estrup. «c7»The first thing that was done, was to
add a new «c6»gallery.«»
«»
The chartmag «c7»was still being released quite reguarly, but not as often as
in the past however. The main reason was that the EuroChart had become much
bigger than in the past. In any case, Static Bytes managed to release «c6»13
issues «c7»until issue 27 got released at the end of «c6»January 1995. «c7»During this
period quite many changes happened. There were changes in the chart
categories, the «c6»EuroStatistics «c7»got introduced in issue 24 and the mag also
went «c6»AGA. «c7»The graphics and code areas had improved alot after Static Bytes
took over. This was quite noticeable in the last issue with the great
graphics of Friendly/Static Bytes for instance. However, there were never many articles
included and the news sections never were that updated. But the charts with
the EuroStatistics were just great! The EuroChart had turned into the «c6»best
charts around.«»
«»
«c7»Just as Crusaders before them, Static Bytes became more or less inactive,
and again the EuroChart got handed over. But in most of the mags at that
time, the chart was considered dead. However, the new team behind the EC,
«c6»Depth, «c7»prove them all wrong.«»
«»
It took a while, but in «c6»December 1996 «c7»the wait was over, and the crazy
Depth gang released issue 28 of the famous chart. And soon, even Depth
became famous. Just as issue 27 under the Static Bytes label, also issue 28
got great graphics (both panels and cliparts), but not many files. This
time the EuroChart was only «c6»harddisk installable. «c7»And just as issue 27, it
got a nice intro done by another danish group. The intro in issue 27 was
done by Gunnars Farvebio, and the intro in issue 28 was done by Impact Dk.
It was surely nice. «c6»The EuroChart was definately back!«»
«»
«c7»The new main-editors were «c6»Cytron and Curt Cool «c7»and the coding was now taken
over by Quedax. Depth managed to release «c6»issue 28 to 38 «c7»on their own.
During this time the mag expanded both in the graphics and articles
department, and the chartmag became even more popular. The EuroChart got
released quite reguarly, with 4 releases in 1997, 3 in 1998 and 3 issues
only by Depth in 1999. But Depth became tired as well, and wanted a coop
partner. So from issue 39, released in December 1999, there were «c6»two
main-editing teams of the EuroChart.«»
«»
«c7»Yes, from «c6»issue 39 until issue 43, Depth and IRIS «c7»have done the famous
EuroChart together. I don't know if it's a coincident or not, but also with
this change, another danish group did the intro. This time it was done by
Focus Design. In any case, the EuroChart continued to improve during these
issues. And issue 42 is certainly the best and biggest issue of this famous
chart ever! Nevertheless, the EuroChart has not been released as often as
in the past.«»
«»
In late July last year we could finally see the change in issue 43. The mag
was «c6»totally done by IRIS. «c7»Cytron stepped down and gave the sources over to
IRIS, just as Curt Cool had stepped down earlier. All that was included
from Depth this time, was a cool tune from Curt Cool and the old code by
Quedax. And from issue 44 «c6»the EuroChart will only be under the IRIS label.
Darkhawk «c7»will continue being the main-editor, but will get company by
Adonis which become the new main-ed. of the chartmag. And Dr.Doom will
probably continue to upgrade the source to meet the new needs that might
appear. The obvious change in issue 43 was that all the articles were
formatted. But only time will tell what new ideas IRIS will introduce...«»
«»
It's at least a fact that yet «c6»another takeover «c7»have taken place. Good luck
to IRIS which now have two mags under their label. At the end we just have
to thank Depth for the great job they've done these last 4 years!«»
«»
«c6»Long live the EuroChart...«»
«»
«e»
