discnew.font,8
«»
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«al»«c2»   The Parable Of The Crow«»
«»
«c1»   By Powerslave/Gods+Void«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»Once upon a time there was a big «c6»black crow. «c7»He was a bit of a clever
bastard, and took great delight in swooping really low, skimming the ground
and screaming loudly. One day, however, he made a complete cock-up of his
party trick and collided head on with a sixty foot high oak tree, which he
hadn't noticed.«»
«»
Poor crow lay there, gasping for breath. He had cracked a couple of ribs
and damaged a wing, and usual outcome of such damage is a lingering death.
As he sadly contemplated his forthcoming demise, he noticed that an
enormous «c6»bull «c7»had wandered across to have a look at him. "What's up, crow?"
asked the bull. "I'm done for, i can't move!"«»
«»
Bull considered this and said " What you need is a bit of good nourishment
to restore your health, tell you what i'll have a good poke about in what i
leave behind. I'm a prize bull, and the farmer feeds me the best stuff he
can buy, and most of it goes to waste".«»
«»
So for the next few weeks crow dragged his aching body around the field
whilst bull crapped on him, whereupon he would sort out the best bits and
swallow them. After the first week, however, he felt much better, and found
he could manage to flap up to the first branch of the tree going "caw,
caw". At the end of the second week, he was much stronger, and could get to
halfway up the tree, and could go "CORR, CORR". The farmer noticed the
noisy bird whilst he was delivering the bull's food, and decided to bring
his shotgun with him when he came the following week.«»
«»
By the following week crow was fully recovered, and when the farmer
arrived crow was sitting right at the top of the tree screaming "CARRR,
CARRR, CAARRR". Farmer pointed his gun, and with a big bang, crow was
reduced to a million bits of gore and feather. Bull glanced up, and then
shrugging his massive shoulders carried on with his superb feast.«»
«»
Of course, to you the scener there is a «c6»moral «c7»attached to this tale. It is,
«c6»"if you've bullshitted your way to the top of the tree, you'd best keep
quiet about it".«»
«»
«c7»Respect to those who still believe in scene «c6»friendship, «c7»between groups and
sceners. For those who don't, well we all know who you are!!!«»
«»
end.«»
«e»
