»SML:»CL1:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»BIG:»CL0:                                                 The Appendix PowerTrain
»SML:»CL1:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       »CL5:by Sagrael/Appendix & Taboo Staff
»CL1:
Currently  Appendix  is, beyond doubt,
the oldest active group in Poland.  It
has     released     many    excellent
productions  and  has  achieved  a few
notable  successes.   Its  leader  and
organizer  is Madbart - the man who is
familiar  probably  to every scener in
Poland and abroad alike.  In Appendix,
he   also  takes  care  of  everything
related  to  3D  graphics.   Let  him,
however,tell  us  about the beginnings
and the first steps of Appendix:

The  group  was  set up in 1991 but it
was  not  unitl  1992  that  the first





production  actually appeared.  It was
a  bit  of a slapdash but...in 1993 we
presented   something   much   better,
namely    the   "Firehouse"   intro...
Ahh...  Sorry..in `92 we also released
something  more  ambitious  than  that
slideshow  namely  the  music  disc  -
"Wave Sound".

Surely,  Madbart  is  a  key member to
Appendix.    According   to   what  he
says.....

{Madbart} I joined the group in `93/94
as a 3D-freak and a sysop and the idea
to  belong to some other group did not
even  cross  my mind as I like to have
everyhting  right  beside  me.  As for
the  people  from Appendix, especially
Vipe  and Escape, we have been friends
for  a  long  time.   Besides, I still
happen  to  meet  the founders and old
members of the group (Szczecin)

Apart   from  the  things  related  to
graphics  and  organization,  he  also
runs  a  BBS  - The Sect - once one of
the  very  best in Poland and now also
one of the oldest ones...

{Madbart}  The  Sect  was  set  up  in
'93/94...   How  long  is  it going to
last?  I do not know, I have just gave
up running a BBS...  the reasons being
that  at the moment I am collaborating
with  the  people  who  are  close  to
licensed    distributors    or   Amiga
software   producers   with   whom   I
normally cooperate.  If I choose a BBS
in   telnet  now,  they  could  simply
refuse   to   cooperate.   Besides,  I
prefer  silence  at  night.   I am not
saying it is the end, though!

At  the beginning, Appendix was not so
well  known, and no wonder, as at that
time  the  scene was dominated by such
groups    as   Alchemy,   Old   Bulls,
Katharsis  and later also by Union and
Mad  Elks.   Madbart  already  told us
about the first steps towards a career
on  the  scene.   Nevertheless, it was
not  until  1994  that  the  group was
noticed.   It  was  at  the  Primavera
Party   in   Starachowice   where  its
leaders  -  Pike  and Lynx - presented
quite   a   good  demo  named  "Unjust
Sentences"  which  was  placed fourth.
What happened then?

{Madbart}   There   were  many  people
coming  and  going  then.  Actually it
was  we  who  discovered Timer.  Also,
there  was  a super swapper -Klaf- who
joined  our  group  and  who is, in my
opinion,  the  second  best swapper in
the  history  of  our  group.  At that
time  we  also released the pack "Fa!"
by  Klaf,  the  "Intel  Inside" intro,
which was coded a few years ago by Esc
-  who  has  always  been lazybones (I
almost  had  to force him to make it!)
and  "Radioactive"  -  a  BBS-tro  for
Cerber's BBS - written by himself.

During   the   first   active   years,
Appendix    released    yet    another
production.  The excellent "Contagion"
demo was presented at the Computer Art
Festival  in  Bydgoszcz with excellent
code  by  Lynx and Jacson, graphics by
Pike  and  Madbart, and great music by
Slaze/Defiance.   It is interesting to
note  that "Contagion" was shown at an
exceptionally   bad  copy-party  where
there  was  only  one demo compo which
included  both  Amiga and Pc!!  (It is
worth  noticing that the year 1995 was
the time when A 500 and the likes were
still  immensly  popular!).  Well, the
organizers  failed  then...but  so did
Appendix!   How did it come to be that
such a nice demo was presented at such
a bad party?

{Madbart}  (Pike  and Lynx insisted on
this.   It  was  the last smashing ECS
demo  on  the  Polish scene.  Besides,
apart  from Sattelite, it was the last
party for Lynx and Pike...  Anyway, is
it true that "Contagion" rules ?!

It  marked the end of a certain period
in  the  history of Appendix.  Now, it
is   easy  to  divide  the  carrer  of
Appendix  into  two distinct episodes.
First - its beginning and existence up
to the time of "Contagion"; Secondly -
the  current period.  This division is
also accepted by Madbart himself.

{Madbart}   Episodes?    Yes.    After
"Contagion"  I  had  to  take  care of
orginizing things on my own.  Lynx and
Pike  were  slowly  withdrawing  until
they finally left the scene.  Reasons?
Life.   At  one point it really pissed
me  off when Pike stopped doing things
so   I   suggested  that  I  took  the
initiative  and  he seemed to be happy
with this.  After some time, both Lynx
and Pike left.  I was totally green as
far  as  things  related to organizing
were  concerned  but  I decided to try
and  took  it  up.  I can tell you now
that I learnt to be an organizer then.
You  can  call  it  either bad luck or
fate   but   everytime   it  comes  to
organizing things (even when it is not
connected with the scene) it is me who
becomes  involved.   It has come to be
sort of an addiction.

After Appendix was taken up by Madbart
it   suddenly   became   very  active.
Gravity  '96 was a very good start for
the  group  and  it  was at this party
that    the    group   achieved   many
successes!

"Oops"  -  an excellent intro together
with  Venus  Art - first place.  "Zero
Gravity"  -  a  demo  with Venus Art -
first  place.   "Ufu's" - a video demo
by   me   and   Xtr   -  first  place.
"Gravity" - a 4K intro - seventh place

After   the   above   mentioned  party
several   new   faces   appeared   and
Appendix  entered  the charts where it
was, from the very start, placed close
to  the  top.   All through the end of
the  20th  century  the group was very
productive  and  released several more
or less interesting productions:

{Madbart} "Navel" - first place.  Rush
Party1  (1997).   The  first  intro by
Informer  who  was then a fucking good
creature.   "Mystique"  - second place
in IO4.  A really great demo!  "Ufu's"
v1.99'   -  revised  version.   Second
place.   "Introko" - an average intro,
coded  by  a  swapper  (I  forgot  his
nickname!)  who used to code from time
to  time.   Place  unknown.   1997 - I
cannot  even  remember the name of the
party   at  which  it  was  presented.
"Spawn" - Gravity'97 - a revolutionary
intro.   Fucking  good  for that time!
"Psychol"  - released regularly.  1997
-  started  before!   "Capsule"  - the
result  of  the  weakened  cooperation
with   Informer...   Second  place  at
Astrosyn.     I   do   not   find   it
particularly  nice.Year 1997.  "Upn'x"
-  an  intro  -  the  fourth  place at
Astrosyn  '97.   In  my opinion a good
one!  "Useless" - 4K intro - second at
Astrosyn   '97.    "Dolphinary"   -  a
music-disk  Pic  Saint  Loup  together
with Venus Art.Year 1998 "Flea" a demo
????   -  second  at Astrosyn; this is
where  my  collaboration with Informer
got  screwed  up...  "Midge" - a 256 b
intro  -  first  place  at  Rush  '98.
"Riot"  -  a  demo.   Second  place at
Gravity  '98.   I also like it...but..
"Sat'98" invitation.  "Indygo Live!" -
a  concert  by  ver  mp3  - year 1998.
"Tower"  -  seventh  place at Ast'99 -
all using old code by Enter !  "Wiraz"
-  Enter's  util  - he insisted that I
list  it.  "Possible" - a fucking good
intro coded by BTA, presented at ICING
'99.   I  cannot  remember the result.
If  it  had not been for the fact that
it included PC it might have won.

As  you  might  have noticed, the name
Informer  has  already  been mentioned
several times.  A few years ago he was
undoubtedly  the  most active coder in
Appendix.   Only  a short time ago his
name  was  still present on the member
list  but  quite  recently  there have
been  a  rumour  of  him  leaving  the
scene.   Why has a man, known for such
great  demos as Mystique or Riot, left
the Amiga scene?

{Madbart}   Hmmm...   He  was  getting
older.   He took up some job.  He does
not  want  to  admit it but I think he
left  for  good.   Besides, there is a
problem  of  communication between the
two   of   us  and  even  if  he  made
something ( he would have to put a lot
of effort to code a demo under DirectX
anyway) I would not really care!

In  the  year  1999  Appendix  started
publishing   their   own   magazine  -
"Taboo".  It was also the time of next
edition of Satellite and the time when
a new member appeared:

{Madbart}  I  asked  Slayer  to  be  a
co-organizer  in  1999  or  so  (to be
honest  I  do not really remember when
exactly)  Why  him ?  There was a time
when  I could not cope and he appealed
to me as a productive person.  We also
agreed as to the question of the scene
and  demos  production.  I guess I met
him  also  at  Intel  outside 2...I am
very   happy   with  our  cooperation.
There  is  no doubt that he is the one
without  whom I could hardly manage to
keep  Appendix on the right track.  We
simply  understand  each  other.I only
wish  he  lived  in  Szczecin with his
brother...I  had  a chance to meet him
personally  at  Sat'2K.   He changed a
lot since IO2 and now proves, together
with  Jazzcat,to be a super buddy!  We
are  as  one.  As far as demos and the
scene  are  concerned  we  are  rather
old-fashioned.

The year 2000 was also a great success
for    Appendix!     Apart   from   an
invitation  to the Szczecin party, the
group  released  TWO  demos (after two
years  of  silence!)  and  an  intro -
"Electricity"  at  the Assembly.  Most
important, however, Kierownik - a very
active  and  a  very  talented coder -
joined the group.  How did it happen ?

{Madbart}    After    Sat'99   I   got
interested  in  his  intro - which was
rather  average.   I  had the feeling,
though.....and  I  asked  him  to work
with  me...It was the beginning of our
cooperation...Kierownik   is   a  very
productive  coder but if only he could
say no..( see Mawi) ..Anyway,I know he
likes working with us!

Kierownik managed within a quite short
period  to  code  the  above mentioned
"Electricity"    as    well   as   the
incredible  "I  want  to be a machine"
(the  first place in the demo-compo at
Satellite) and now that he is going to
buy   (or   perhaps  he  already  has)
PPC+BVision,  we can expect that there
will  be  still  better  productions!.
The   year   2000   brings   also  the
continuation  of  the "Taboo" magazine
which  became,  quite  unexpectedly, a
rival  for  -  the  so  far undefeated
Excess  in  the  pursuit leadership in
the  disk  magazine field.  The end of
the  century resulted also in Emerse's
demo  ("Mayhem") and a number of plans
for the future which Madbart will tell
us about.

{Madbart}   Hmmm...2   demos,  not  to
mention      "Taboo"...      Jazzcat's
Music-disc,  Slayer's slideshow, and a
new   version   of  Flap's  "Psychol".
Besides...I  am  thinking of some demo
to  celebrate  the 10th anniversary of
our  existence.   What  else...we will
see..   of  course,I  have  some plans
related to demos..

After  successes  at  Satellite  and a
temporary   stagnation   in  activity,
besides from Floppy and Mawi, Appendix
seems  to  be  the  best  group in the
Polish scene.  I asked Madbart what he
thought  about  that  and if they were
not  afraid  to lose their position in
favour of the excellent Potion ?

{Madbart}  I  have  never thought that
way  !   Even after Appendix dominated
Gravity'96...   I  think that you just
should  do  your part and that is all!
As  for  Potion I wish them good luck.
I think they do a good job.  Rather, I
think  of our group in a different way
-  I am sad to see us presented as the
oldest active group....

Well...soon  Appendix  will  have been
existing  for  10  years!  Let us hope
then  that  they  are going to release
many great productions and...that they
won't  enter the PC-scene.  As for the
latter,  the  organizer of Appendix is
quite clear :

{Madbart}  I  see  no  sense in moving
towards  PC.  I thought about this but
it  is not about computers as such ,it
is  about  the scene!  The PC-scene is
for   me  negatively  different  -  no
graphics,  only  photos  etc..I  would
feel displaced there!

Let  us  wish  the  boys from Appendix
good  luck  and  a  lot  of  zeal  and
eagerness  especially  in  view of the
potential  they  already have.There is
no  doubt  that  with  such members as
Kierownik,  Emers,  Scout,  and Slayer
Appendix   can   afford   to   release
extra-productions.    As   a   closing
remark  let  us  now  hear a few words
from  Madbart who will tell us what he
himself thinks about the group:

{Madbart}  Appendix  is  more  than  a
group  to  me  !  It is a challenge, a
sentiment,  and  half  of my life !  I
have  my own beliefs which have strong
roots in the old scene...It is hard to
describe this.  Anyway, I am not going
to change groups at the moment.






