»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
           »BIG:»CL9:OpenGL on Amiga
»SML:»CL8:--------------------------------------

»CL4:               by Bucko

»CL0:March 1999 saw the release of »CL1:Warp3D»
Version 2.0, following on from
WarpOS., »CL1:Haage and Partner Computer
Ltd» continue to support PowerPC cards
with this new development which
brings support for 3D acceleration
and (together with StormMesa) »CL1:OpenGL»
to the Amiga. For those of you who
are not familiar with »CL1:OpenGL», it is a
hardware independent standard which
3D applications and games can be
written to be compatible with. The
theory is that »CL1:OpenGL» is to 3D
graphics what AHI is to sound, and
RTG is to graphics, the programmer
need not concern themselves with what
3D hardware is being used by the
user, provided both are »CL1:OpenGL»
compatible.





         »PIC:128x51»









Naturally this has implications for
the fledging PowerPC demo scene. Now
that there are standards in place,
there is the potential for faster PPC
3D demos thanks to the 3D
acceleration available on all PPC
graphics cards and also wider
compatibility between 3D cards such
as the virge, Permedia and the soon
to be released 3DFX.

I eagerly downloaded Storm3D and the
OpenGL demos from the Haage and
Partner website as soon as the
newsletter virtually dropped through
my electronic mailbox. After waiting
the ten minutes or so for the
downloads to finish I unpacked the
archives, a few crashes later thanks
to RTGmaster and WarpOS not being
correctly configured for the Blizzard
Vision I was away, to a purple screen
of nothingness. 

A few keystrokes later and I managed
to switch texture mapping on, before
my eyes was a square, that spun
realtime in 3D - wow! Well it is a
start!

          »PIC:128x69»









The other demo program supplied with
Warp3D executed but failed to display
anything other than some red
flickering walls, hardly a promising
sign. The Storm mesa OpenGL demos
were thankfully more successful, the
first one, Atlantis, draws some fish
swimming around on your screen, in
3D. Hardly an impressive sight but by
this time I was thankful that
anything was working at all. Other
demos drew teapots and corridors and
other delights. Unfortunately none of
the demos showed stunning speed, on
the contrary, with all the textures
on a black and white walk down a 3D
corridor ran at a snail crawling
1.5fps. The executables came in two
flavours, PowerPC and PowerPC with 3D
acceleration and for some reason they
gave similar speeds, perhaps
suggesting that my Virge 3D was not
becoming active at all. Asking
around on the internet yielded some
answers but even after upgrading my
version of Cybergraphics as advised,
I still got no improvement.

The relative usefulness of OpenGL and
3D hardware acceleration on the Amiga
depends on this software becoming
more fully developed. If it is to be
anything more than a novelty we need
more speed, if indeed more speed is
possible, this is OpenGL we are
talking about and the relative bus
speeds of Amigas today simply may not
be able to cope. Warp3D itself seems
more promising, despite the fact that
the demo programs were not running
correctly. Those of you who remember
how WarpOS and Phase5 PowerPC kernels
started out life will know only too
well that these developments take
time, it is a sad but true fact that
there are not armies of coders
working on these projects any more.
Only time will tell if Warp3D will
deliver great 3D performance, but it
is certainly promising and an
interesting development for Amiga,
the computer that just refuses to die.
