»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
        »BIG:»CL9:AMIGA on TV - Part One
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:            by: zito/zetec

»CL0:Because we, the users of an old-
fashioned computer called »CL1:AMIGA»,
who have to battle every day against
prejudices and the ignorance of pc-
users, I thought it could push up the
morality and the mood among us if I
tell you some specials about our
beloved girl friend. Here they come...






I am not only a big fan of the AMIGA.
I really love watching movies eighter
on tv or in cinema too. In my country
one would call me a »CL1:`Kineasten`». I
have watched so many movies that I am
not able to remember every detail in
a movie although I have seen most of
them not only one time. Some of them
I liked so much that I have watched
them several times to remind me on
things I enjoyed or to find some new
stuff in I haven`t relized yet. But
some things, details, will surely
stay, maybe forever, in my mind. One
of them is the fact, to see the
computer about the whole world is
telling that it is dead in a movie.
The one I love and use every day
more and more. And it was no low
budget production that the producers
have not enough money for better
computers! It was a very big
surprise for me. It thought I would
dream, because normally is there a
designer at the set for the movie,
who is responsible for the graphic
user interface a character is using.
And if it is a low cost production
they normally use a standard tin
with »CL1:"micro windows`90"» or so. But I
was sure I`d seen an »CL1:AMIGA». So I
went to a video shop next day and
lent me the one I have seen the
evening before to look if I was right.
And I was!!!

It was a nice and warm afternoon in
summer of... I guess it was 1992. My
life with the AMIGA was young and
the big crash of commodore was not
in sight of course. These days the
PC-users where a small group of
outsiders and it was an unforgetable
experience for them to see what an
AMIGA can bring. For example the
`World of Commodore` demo `Amiga
rules` by Sanity I got fresh a week
before. I showed some friends of mine
who told about themselves that they
had the newest and fastest hardware
available. We played `Sensible Soccer`
or any similar soccer game. A standart
one without exploiding graphics or so
and I decided I should show my friends
this new demo that still was my
favorite until last year. After the
show they can`t talk for a few
minutes. They were so surprised and
asked me:

 `One disk only? Can`t be true! On my
  computer it would need about three
  or maybe four disks! And you don`t
  need to install it on a hd with 200
  MB free space at least?`

           »PIC:EC128x100»













I remember that day exactly. It was
one of these triumph days I have never
seen again with this intensity.
Nowadays it is harder to surprise a
PC-guy. But back to the topic...

On the same day I watched `Betrayed`
on a advertisement free channel. The
movie is not the best I have seen, but
a nice thriller featuring a pretty
Debra Winger and a diabolic Tom
Berenger. The story is so far about a
FBI agent (Winger) who will be
infiltrated in a racial organisation
that hunts black people for fun. Also
they robbed banks to get money and it
was no problem for them to kill
officers. In any case was there a
radio presenter who talked against
organisations of such a kind. He has
been killed and now it was the turn of
the FBI to find his murderer, to prove
this and to arrest the responsible
person(s).

After our agent is in contact with a
farmer named Gary Simmons (Berenger),
an important person in this
nazi-company she felt in love with him
(a very dramatic element)... I won`t
tell you the ending of the movie.
Maybe you will watch it by yourself
next time if you read the following:







In a situation (before it comes to a
sexual act between the Agent and Gary)
you should better look carefully at
the screen, because you will see there
an AMIGA 500 while Gary and Cathy are
talking. But it becomes better. Gary
showed Cathy how to use this great
computer. He showed her that this
computer is able to speak while he
runs the old `SAY` programm from the
DOS1.3 Workbench.
      »PIC:DarthVader160x80»








It was a great feeling for me to see
this. The same day I called my friend
Ed to tell him this stuff. He was
surprised too. We both were happy
because we were, and still we are, big
AMIGA fans and it was not normal as I
told you in the first paragraph and
because of the growing PC-scene not
too. We talked the whole night just
about computers and the reason that
could made the director Constantin
Costa-Garvas to inlude even an AMIGA??
Perhaps he was a well-known scener,
who walks among us with unknown real
life idendity!? Or just a big fan as
we are?! But as it always is, we never
found it out...



At last I can only suggest you to
watch the movie and enjoy the use of
our girl friend in a big hollywood
production. It`s no surprise for you
anymore but although interesting and
at least a good movie.


    © 1999 by zito/zetec











As `bonbon` I will give you some
information about the movie if you are
not that freak who already knows a
movie by hearing its original title.
If there are some boys or girls out
there who know more movies where an
AMIGA appears, just contact me and the
series will go on further than the
planed 3 Parts.


BETRAYED (USA 1987, 126min): Politthriller, produced by Sundown Prod.,
distributed by UIP, produced by Irwin Winkler, directed by Constantin
Costa-Gavras, written by Joe Eszterhas, director of photography Patrick
Blossier, music by Bill Conti, Cut by Joëlle van Effenterre, 
cast:                  »CL1:Debra Winger   »-»CL1:  Cathy Weaver/KatiePhillips
                       Tom Berenger   »-»CL1:  Gary Simmons
                       John Heard     »-»CL1:  Michael Carnes
                       Betsy Blair    »-»CL1:  Gladys Simmons
                       John Mahoney   »-»CL1:  Shorty 