»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
        »CL9:»BIG:What are they doing?
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL1:Written By »CL0:Darkus/Nah Kolor»

  Throughout  the  years many  sceners
have been  whitnessed to  come and go, 
many   vanish  into  real life  whilst
others  end  up with  jobs  at various
games  companies. Yet  whether knowing
or  not  knowing  why  they  left, one
still  finds  himself  wondering  what
the  old  legends of yesterdays  scene
are up to today. The  »CL0:Eurocharts Staff»
sent  its  curious   reporters  around
Europe  to  try  and   discover  whats
happening.  

   We  managed to  uncover the hideout
of a  certian »CL0:William  Henrik  Oleson»,
known to us as »CL0:Wolfman/Balance». We put
the questions  straight  to him. »CL0:"What
have you been doing since you left the
scene?"» we asked. »CL0:"Well, I  have  been
spending  most   of  my  time in  this
little hut!"» he replied. Being  rather
puzzled, we looked  around and  all we
could see was a  small bed  and tables
of chemicals and  scientific tools. It
would seem »CL0:Wolfman» has  turned from an
editor  to  a  scientist? We  tried to
break the  ice a little and  asked »CL0:"Do
you  still  think  about  Upstream and
your old  Balance team mates?"» Wolfman
just shrugged his shoulders and took a
seat  on his  bed. His  behaviour  was
beginning to seem rather worrying, not
to   mention  his   appearance   which
consisted  of  very  long  messy hair,
dirty  ragged clothes  and an unshaven
face. Still, we  put another  question
to him »CL0:"Remeber RAW and  Lord Helmet?"»
As soon  as the word »CL0:RAW» was mentioned
»CL0:Wolfman» clutched  his chest and  began
to scream with pain. We stepped back a
little    and   wondered    what   was
happening. »CL0:"Was it something we said?"»
we asked. »CL0:Wolfman»  suddenly  jumped up
and  dashed  over to his chemicals. He
began  franticly  working  and  mixing
anything   he  could   find  with  his
beloved chemicals. Whilst he  was busy
we took it  upon  ourselves to  take a
good   look    around.   Amongst   his
discoloured  and  ragged bed covers we
found a ripped picture  of »CL0:Lord Helmet»
full of  holes  and  with   the  words
»CL0:"Hejda,  hejda"»  written   across  the
bottom.  And   just   as  our  Swedish
translator  began  to  translate   it,
»CL0:Wolfman» burst out  into  some  kind of
evil   laughter   waving   about   his
bubbling      chemicals.     »CL0:"finally,
finally I  can  get  my  revenge!"»  he
claimed. »CL0:"Lord  Helmet  will  pay  the
price for stopping  me  from  becoming
number one!"» Wolfman  after  what must
have been years of trying  had finally
conjured up a lethal chemical which he
was   planning  to  inject  into  »CL0:Lord
Helmet». Realising this, we decided  to
make a quick exit and leave »CL0:Mr.Wolfman»
alone with his years old grudge.

After  that   obscure  encounter  »CL0:Lord 
Helmet»  claimed   he   was   recieving 
constant death  threats. He told us »CL0:"I 
have had to  spend my  savings  on two
personal   bodyguards, due   to    the 
seriousness of the situation!"»

Well we  hope this  short  informative 
article has  enlightened any  who  may
wonder  what the  previous generations
of sceners  are  up  to   today.  Next
issue we  hope  to uncover  the French
musician »CL0:Audiomonster.»
 
                    - Regards, »CL0:Darkus.»
