»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
              »CL7:»BIG:Editorial
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:           by Cytron/Depth

»CL0:So, this is it - the 10th issue of the
Official Eurochart under the Depth
label - amazing.

This has to bring up some memories
now, hasn't it? Oh yeah!

I remember when I first heard about
the idea of taking over the Eurochart.
It sounded crazy to me. The Eurochart
had always stood for me as a unique
chart, much better than the rest - and
even better after the Static Bytes
staff decided to make it system
friendly.

However, as it turned out, we in Depth
were apparently the only ones
interested in not letting this
instutution of its own just die. A
team of five people in Depth gave
their commitments - among them
Bakerman/Depth - haha!

Anyway - it was soon to be found out
that the dear Estrup had lost al the
source during an HD crash. Therefore,
Quedax from our group bravely
challenged faith, and decided to write
the code once again from the bottom in
plain 100% system friendly amiga ASM.
A huge task indeed - the source of
today is 6.300 lines!

This little extra thingie costed us a
further delay of 6 months, which quite
annoyed Impact DK, who had been kind
enough to make a nice intro - although
a big huge in size - for the Official
Eurochart issue 28.

After having received the code from
Quedax - I think I died! At that time,
my knowledge of any machine
instruction on any platform was
limited to absolutely nothing. Quedax
helped me a lot in getting acquianted
with this, and I must have used at
least 200 hours of lessons in just
making what takes me as little as 10
hours for an issue today!



I put together a quite nice votetool
in C. The tool of today is the fourth
revision of it - and it's really
great! I'm sure, that if the other
chartmakers saw it, they'd envy us! At
least I hope so - hehe. This also
minimized the time for counting a vote
- and made the process of keeping
track of infotexts, groups, and
pictures of all the entries incredibly
easy. I'm quite proud of this tool,
actually!

The status of the chart today compared
to issue 28 is remarkably unchanged,
IMO. Although we have lost some of our
status as thee chart, my feeling still
is that many sceners really read this
chart. The only problem that we suffer
from, along with all the other charts,
is the immense lack of voters. This
has the sad but natural explanation
that fewer and fewer sceners are left
- and many of them aren't that engaged
in the scene anymore. However, around
100 steady voters faithfully use some
of their time to fill a sheet in one
form or the other. Bien!

As for me - I've also myself become
much less engaged in the scene than in
December'96, when issue 28 hit the
streets. However, as the time
consuming is limited for an
experienced maineditor - I will be
just a faithful towards this chart as
all of you voting and reading guys.
Don't worry. Now go enjoy this brand
new issue with quite a few articles -
right now - I'll pack my bags and find
a flight to Geneva, Switzerland,
wherefrom I'll be the maineditor the
next 12 months while writing my thesis
at CERN. Enjoy reading, while I'm
taking of Copenhagen Airport,
transitting in Charles de Gaulle, and
finally arriving in Geneva. 