
                                »BIG:»CL9:No Limits? 

»SML: »CL5:Written By Darkus/Nautika

»CL0:   Throughout the years many new diskmagazines have embraced the scene, some
 obviously more successful  than others. Magazines such as the legendary RAW
 is the best illustration of how a talented team of editors combined  with a
 powerful  group can  work together to  produce excellence. Just recently we
 all witnessed  the  release of The  Scene Press, courtesy of a co-operation
 between Nerve Axis and Darkage. With both groups being quite powerful in
 todays scene we can be assured this is a sign The Scene Press will be a
 real treat. Also with this being the second atempt at a magazine from both
 groups we can surely expect something extra special. 
 

























»CL9:                                  Wrong Look?

»CL0:   Taking into account the high expections, I was hoping this was going to
 be the magazine we have all be waiting for. Yet my hopes were instantly 
 dashed when I noticed the magazine took more the Pressure aproach rather
 than that of Scenetime. Here in England Pressure was heralded as a great
 success down to the fact the UK scene had not seen a diskmag in such a long
 time, infact most UK sceners today have never seen a UK produced diskmag.
 So its no wonder sceners from this small island would like such a
 production. Yet amazingly Pressure has been seen ranked quite highly in
 charts, however this is mostly down to sceners simply voting for it due to
 the new found fame of the Nerve Axis team. Some sceners seemed blind to the 
 poor quality of it.



























»CL9:                             Missing Common Sense

»CL0:   Overall, this seems to be a major step in the wrong direction for the two
 collaborating groups. One finds it very difficult to understand why Nerve
 Axis and Darkage would take the Pressure look, it would appear only a small
 fraction of common sense would have prevented this from happening.
 Personally I believe they should have coded a new magazine altogether, with
 good elements from both Scenetime and Pressure. Doesnt that make more sense to
 everyone?   
 
»CL9:                            Quantity over Quality? 

»CL0:   The magazine boasts quite a large editorial staff which consists of 3
 main editors and 8 co-editors bringing the total to 11 writers. And as we
 all know its quality that counts, not the quantity. Which seems to be
 another mistake Darkage and Nerve Axis have made. Looking closly at the
 staff, we have Koasmaster,Ghandy,Soda,Darkhawk and Yure who are the only
 established writers. Leaving a total of 6 either unknown or known to be not
 particularly good. Thus leading us to believe the overall choice of staff
 indicates Darkage and Nerve Axis have decided upon releasing issues full 




















 of as many articles as possible whilst not taking into account the quality
 of them. However in the debut issue, the quality and quantity of the 
 articles was suprisingly balanced well. Yet this is simply because most of
 the staff didn`t even manage to write one article between them, and by
 judging past articles by these sceners it seems this worked to the
 advantage of the magazine. I`m sure issue 2 will bring many articles by
 each staff member, dipping the current successful balance into quantity
 over quality. Which is, a shame. 
 
»CL9:                                  The Charts

»CL0:   With the joining of the two magazines it is no suprise the Scenetime
 chart would continue. However it was a suprise to see the exact same 
 layout and graphics used. Yet another disapointment, this time showing
 a somewhat lack of effort from the creaters. It may have been acceptable
 if the graphics were actually similar to the rest, but they arent. Making
 the chart look out of place and adding a feel of poor design to the overall
 image of the magazine.  
      





















»CL9:                               Final Conlusion

»CL0:   Such potential and experience from the two groups seems to have gone to
 waste, leaving us with nothing more than a slight touched up version of
 Pressure and the death of Scenetime. Surely a negative move! Yet one still
 feels a positive outcome as been obtained. The fact this is the final step
 to promoting The Official Eurocharts as the number one chart magazine. 