»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »BIG:»CL9:Diskmags on the net -
»SML:     the change of the magscene
»CL8:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL0:Lately, several people have asked me
to get the whole »CL1:Eurochart» on the net
and forget about the standard Amiga
version. Of course, most of these
people are ex. Amiga sceners/owners, 
who would like to see what is 
happening on the scene now - 
something which a good set of charts 
are usually the best at showing.




With a diskmag online always follows a
public demand to constantly update the
homepage - something which changes the 
making of a diskmag completely, since
the "oldschool" diskmags are usually
made quite quickly, in a short period 
of intensive work, whereas a netmag
needs to be updated constantly.
This is probably the reason why none
of the major Amiga scene mags have
really made it to the net - we do see
»CL1:ROM», »CL1:Seenpoint» and »CL1:Generation» online,
but the emphasis is still put on the
standard Amiga version. It simply
takes an editor with a completely
different view of things to make a
diskmag which only exists on-line.



Still, in the future when the net has
been integrated even better into
society, this is where the future of
diskmags lies as well.
This is not the death of the diskmag
scene, as some people have sometimes
believed, it is merely another change,
another impact which the net have on
the computerdependent scene.
After all, we already have JAVA demos
which are platform independent, so why
not diskmags and other scene
productions?
              »PIC:128x51»






What does it take to make a diskmag on
the net?
It takes all the classic abilities of
an editor, at least a basic,
preferably very good knowledge of
html, a good i-net provider, perhaps a
www.(name-of-diskmag).org|nu|whatever 
adress, and much, much more time than
a usual diskmag - simply because of
the amount of updates needed to make
it an interesting page - it would
certainly feel rather lousy if nobody
read the damn' thing.







»CL0:Back to the present, we see a tendency
of diskmags wanting to go online,
though not really succeeding - the
early attempt, »CL1:RAW» online is as far as
I know gone for good now, »CL1:ROM» online 
was last updated on 01/01 '99, 
»CL1:Generation» features something about
Generation #28 which we are eagerly
awaiting, and »CL1:www.seenpoint.de» almost
only contains some issues for
downloading and something about what
Seenpoint is. The homepage of this
very mag hasn't been updated for years
(except that I believe that most
issues are available for download),
and the homepage of »CL1:The Scene Press»
contains information about how to
support it. So the Amiga scene is
still waiting for a real netmag, I
believe.
»CL1:Back to the beginning of the article:»
What would it take to put our own
»CL1:Eurochart» online? I have thought a bit
about it, and if someone feel like
taking on the task, please contact us!

»CL2:To put the chart section online, we
would need some kind of votekey, where
everyone who were going to vote would
need a votekey which they would have
to mail the editors to get. That way 
fakevotes would be avoided. Then the 
votes should either be counted 
directly online or back at the editors
computer, using some fancy program
which would simply throw out the
charts and the list of voters as
html/asp/... whatever a decent browser
supports these days, also featuring 
efficient stats. 
Perhaps it would even be possible to
store people's votes online, so that
they could just change their votes
instead of having to enter new ones
every time. Of course there would have
to be an "age-limit" for the votes so
that votes older than eg. half a year
would cease to be counted when the
votes were updated - which they could
be maybe every week - then people
could change their votes when they
like  to and a week later or less,
their votes would already make an
impact. Of course there should still
be all the information about the
sceners and demos as in the EuroStat
today.



This was the chart section. In the
gallery section, everybody should be
able to upload pictures with a
description which would simply stay
there until their "age-limit" expired.
Of course, the key would also be
needed to do this, to event people
from uploading any kind of crap.

And in the articles section, people
should just mail their articles to the
editors, (as html?) and then they
would be online soon after, almost
unedited, but still ready to be shown
online.

The news section should of course be
online as well, as seen on Generation 
online.

Still, this would loose some of the
charm the »CL3:Eurochart» has nowadays - how
do the feel of titlepics, modmusic,               »PIC:EC38.160x145»
great clip-art etc. etc. work on-line?
Not as well as on harddisk, I am
afraid - and I'm not sure I would
actually like to be part of making
such a netmag, because of the amount
of work involved.

»CL0:But netmags are the future - and I
look forward to reading them!
