»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
             »CL9:»BIG:Poland rulz?
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL0:In the 17th issue of »CL1:"Save da Vinyl"»
(the musicpackmag by »CL1:Azzaro»/»CL1:MaWi»),
»CL1:Azzaro» states that he thinks it is sad
that people are voting for people
whose scene career ended a long time a
ago, that the releases on »CL1:The
Gathering» and »CL1:Symposium Mekka '99» was
somewhat disappointing - and that the
releases on »CL1:AstroSyn '99» were far
better, which is why he reaches the
conclusion that Poland rules the
scene.







I dare say that he is about right
about the quality of the releases at
»CL1:The Gathering» and the »CL1:Symposium-Mekka»,
but I can't say that I think that the
releases at »CL1:AstroSyn» were all that
better. Yes, »CL1:Potion» really kicked ass
- »CL1:Vertus» is a really impressive demo,
and »CL1:Gush» is a fine intro which the
charts in this issue of the Eurochart
also reflects - but that aside, the
productions are of the usual middling
standard of today. And as far as I
remember, the 40k intros of the
Symposium weren't all that bad
either... :)

Poland is by far the most productive
country on the Amiga scene these 
days, I have no doubt, but then how
come the Polish groups do not reach
the absolute top of the charts?

I can see several reasons for this:
Some of the productions seem to be
rushed together which often results in
a lack of that certain oomph which
style gives. Because style and
innovation is really the key to a long
stay in the charts - look at Relic
which has defined what a 3d demo 
should be able to do - simply because
everything fits so well together.
And look at »CL1:Smokebomb»'s position in
this issue of the »CL1:Eurochart».


Seemingly many Polish productions are
very anonymous in style which simply
makes people unable to remember them
when voting.
I am not saying that the Northern
European groups are far better at 
making stylish productions, but so 
far productions like »CL1:"1000%"» and
»CL1:"Relic"» deservedly reach the top of
the charts simply by being the most
well-worked-through productions -
everything fits and everything show
that the cooperation between the
various artists involved have worked
as well as it possibly can.




»CL2:Another reason why the Polish
productions aren't reaching the top
could be that they often need a big
hardware setup, lots of memory etc.
etc. - the PPC scene seems to have
most of its members in Poland, and
that's obviously no surprise.
The problem with this big need for
memory and high processors is that the
more a productions requires, the fewer
people are able to watch it - and if I
am not able to watch a production, why
the hell should I vote for it?
»CL3:Relic» is able to run on a 020 with 4
megabytes of fastmem - and that's
essentially the way it has to be if
you want to reach the top - compare
with the latest »CL3:Nah-Kolor»&»CL3:Phase Truce»
productions which requires »CL3:FPU» and
more than »CL3:16 megs» of fastmem, and you
get the idea.
The standard Amiga configuration is
still »CL3:030» with »CL3:16 megs» of memory,
and some people have less - so to get
lots of votes, make productions which
work on as many machines as possible.

»CL0:A third reason - something which
quite often annoys me - is that the
Polish scene seem to want to be a
closed circle, closed around itself.
In a #18 of »CL1:"Save da Vinyl"»,
»CL1:Azzaro» was complaining about
»CL1:Neurodancer»/»CL1:100%»'s ascii charts which 
had been complaining about the amount 
of Polish language in the polish ascii
collections, I suspect in a rather
rude way. Still, »CL1:Azzaro» was no better
»CL1:"fuck off stupid german idiots"» was
what he wrote.
»CL0:But I believe that there was something
right about their complaint:
The Polish scene seems to have enough
in itself. All mags from Poland are in
Polish, most of the ascii collections
are in Polish, some of the productions
are in Polish, and it is sometimes
hard to obtain a party invitation to a
Polish party in any other language
than, yes, you guessed it, Polish.
What's the matter? Don't you guys
speak English? Perhaps I would even
like to come to one of your parties -
after all Poland and Denmark aren't
all that far from eachother - and then 
it's pretty annoying that the
invitation are written in a language
that I'm going to need a translator to
understand.
And what if just some of the Polish
diskmags were written in English -
perhaps we might have a new diskmag
star on our hands - there seem to be
plenty of editors around, at least.
So please, guys - talk to the rest of
the world as well, and do it in the
language we can all understand -
English! It seems arrogant and
internal not to write so that
everyone can understand, and I'm sure
that some people might see that as a
reason not to vote for somebody.

These are the reasons I could find why
the Polish sceners aren't in the
charts as much as they really could
be, because surely some of the best 
and most talented sceners come from 
Poland, so I suppose it is just a 
question of time till somebody makes 
a real killer demo where everything 
just works.
                                                   »PIC:EC38.160x145» 
»CL7:[and I haven't seen Datablade yet]
