»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
  »CL9:»BIG:Review - »SML:B-Mon Auto Monitor Switch
»CL8:--------------------------------------

»CL4:               by Bucko

»CL0:If you have finished reading my
review of the excellent A1200
Graphics card, the Blizzard Vision,
you will have concluded (hopefully!)
that I am very happy with the card.
However, nothing is ever perfect.
Since there is no pass through for
Amiga custom screenmodes, If you want
to watch demos or read Eurochart
there were two options. The first was
to keep swapping the monitors between
AGA and B-Vision and the second is to
have two displays.  The first option
is likely to take its toll on your
patience and your hardware very
quickly. The Second is easier but
somewhat inconvenient. Having two
monitors attached to the Amiga,
especially when my Pointless
Contraption shares the same desk
space, resulted in a desk with no
room for anything else.

Fortunately there is a solution, the
boffins at UK hardware company
Eyetech have devised a monitor switch
specially designed for the B-vision,
and B-Mon, for it is this product, is
the elegant option number three.





The B-Mon consists of a small plastic
box of trickery with two monitor
inputs on one side, and one standard
VGA connector and a red LED on the
other. On the left connector a lead
will probably already have been
attached depending on what
scandoubler you use, Eyetech build
the units themselves and so can
customise them to suit each customer,
so any flicker fixer/scan doubler
will be compatible. The B-Vision
connector will attach to the other
monitor input once unclipped from its
PCB. This does mean you loose the
shutter glasses output socket but
quite frankly I cannot envisage
anybody wanting to use this anyway.
At the end of another thin length of
cable sits a switch mounted on a
tower face panel, the kind that
covers a 5.25 inch drive bay. If you
have none of these bays left you may
well be in trouble, but the switch is
small and if you ask Eyetech nicely
they may be able to make you a 3.5
inch B-Mon. 

»CL9:Power Problems

»CL0:It is now that the device became a
little problematic. The instructions
for the installation are somewhat
Spartan to say the least. The
documentation that came with my B-Mon
stated that there should be a power
connector to supply the device with 5
volts to power the LED and switching
mechanism, this cable was absent and
the B-mon won't function without it.
A phone call to Eyetech later and it
transpires that a power connector
from a LED on the front of the tower
could be connected and used to power
the device. After searching and
unscrewing my tower in places that
were really not meant to be unscrewed
I rang back to Eyetech, who had by
then realised that the power tower
does not have the right power
connector, and promptly sent the
correct one as mentioned in the
installation instructions. Problem
solved, or so I thought. Thanks again
to general stupidity on my behalf and
poor instructions on the
manufacturers, I connected the power
lead incorrectly. The resulting
explosion managed to take out half of
my house. Actually that's a lie, but
the cable did melt and damage the
switching mechanism. The B-Mon made
its way back to Eyetech, who were
very prompt and repaired the unit
without any further fuss. If you have
a Power Tower do not forget to order
this extra connector when ordering
your B-Mon.
         »PIC:EC128x100»











»CL9:I Was Blind, Now I see

»CL0:So finally after a few setbacks the
B-Mon was installed and running. In
operation switching is instantaneous
and since no software or patches are
involved is 100% compatible with all
software. Cybergraphics screens are
unaffected and look as crisp and
clear at they always did. AGA
screenmodes, unfortunately, suffer
from periodic distortion. The exact
reason why this occurs is not clear,
but the prime suspect is interference
from the A1200`s Motherboard. Where
the B-Vision connecting cable is very
well insulated the AGA connecting
cable supplied by Eyetech is not. I
tried taking the cable out and
wrapping it in insulating tape to
cure the problem, this seems to have
helped but not cured it completely.
The interference does not occur often
and is thankfully brief. Otherwise
the whole thing worked perfectly.

The B-Mon is by no means perfect, it
suffers from poor documentation and
the interference problem on the AGA
screenmodes is almost unforgivable
considering the £40 plus post and
package price point and the long
waiting list you have to join to wait
for your unit to be custom made.
However considering the two
alternative methods of getting the
entire range of screenmodes on your
beefed up Amiga there really is no
alternative. Get the B-Mon and get
swiched on today.


                                       »PIC:Atomic.320x128»


»CL9:Overall - »CL7:6.5»CL8: out of 10

»CL1:Addendum:»CL0: After a phone call to the
technical support department, it
appears that the flickering AGA
acreens are not a common problem in
the B-Mon, if this is the case then
the mark really should be higher,
around »CL7:8.5»CL8:/10»CL0: I think. 