»SML:»CL8:--------------------------------------
»BIG:»CL9:Save Mailtrading, Buy a Zip Drive!
»SML:»CL8:--------------------------------------

»CL4:               by Bucko

»CL0:I have an Internet connection, it is
hard to find a scener who doesn't
these days. After a while you begin
to take it for granted, and it is a
great way to keep in touch.
However, I recently decided to go back
to mailtrading, not because it has
anything to offer over Internet
trading other than that personal
touch, which I missed. I am not a
fantastic swapper, I never found the
time to have more than about 20
contacts but I still feel that I
would like to start swapping again.
So I did. And I enjoyed writing the
contact letters to old friends who I
have not heard from in a long time
and I look forward to some great
contact letters coming back through
my mailbox soon. What I do not enjoy
is the unproductive time spent
messing around with the slow, low
capacity old-fashioned floppy disk.

Sorting out floppy disks is not just
unproductive due to their lack of
speed. Each disk contains about a
megabyte, and weighs about 30 grams
(very approximately :) ) which makes
sending it through the post just as
expensive as had you sent it down the
phoneline.


»CL1:So what is the answer?» How about we
all buy Zip drives? Firstly, they are
not very expensive and come in SCSI
or IDE varieties to suit practically
any Amiga configuration, secondly
they allow you to send 100 floppy
disks worth of data for the price of
one floppy disk. There is no messing
around squeezing files onto the zip
using Quarterback or Diavalo (unless
like me you have a friend who sends
you a ISO image every month or so -
Hi Axl ! ) they allow swappers to
swap quickly and cheaply, more
cheaply than trying to download 100
megs from the net. Even those of you
who refuse to spend any money on your
Amiga any more can get one for the PC
and simply attach a Network PC cable
for around £20 between the two
machines. They are great for backup
and archiving too. (before anyone
suggests it no I don`t work for
Iomega :) )

A 100 megabyte floppy makes
mailtrading a viable alternative to
internet, not just a more attractive
one. So come on all of you elite and
lazy friendship swapping people,
invest in zip drives and lets put
some life back into the mailtrading
scene. 