»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »CL8:»BIG:Scene Meeting 99 report
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            By Ransom/IRIS

»CL0:It was with great expectation I drove
to Odense the 8th July, I was looking
forward to Scene Meeting 99, which I
was going to help organize. When I
arrived late Thursday, I saw, much to
my suprise, that all the tables had
already been set up nicely. So we used
the rest of that night setting up our
small demo lab, and prepared some of
the screens that were to be shown on
the projector we had to go fetch the
next morning. We also made an Amiga
quiz with alot of hard questions
nobody would be able to answer :)
Anyway, the first guests were already
settled at their seats, although the
party hadn't actually started yet.
Very late that night, we went to sleep
knowing that we would have to get up
in a few hours to go get the big
screen projector.

»CL2:Very early next morning, we went to
the Audio/Video store to get the
projector. That caused no trouble,
except that I had to pay for the damn
thing. This actually reminds me to
tell you that the economy behind SM
was really bad, there was no way we
were gonna' make enough money on the
entrance for this thing to even break
even money wise. But more on that
later :)

After returning to the party place, we
started to set up the projector, and
we found out that it was actually very
good compared to the one we had last
year (which sucked quite much).
Anyway, there was now a steady flow of
new people coming in, and as people
started turning the equipment on we
started worrying about the power.
Strangely enough, we had no power
failures.. I guess the fuses worked
extra hard because they knew it was
SM, and they were not allowed to fail
:)

At this point everybody had a big
smile on their face, because
everything was working out just
great.

»CL4:But accidents just have to happen I
guess, so it did. Suddenly our big
screen projector went dead. Uhohh,
this was not good, we tried
everything, but it just would not come
to life again. I started getting
scared that we might have to pay
somekind of compensation. But after
phoning the A/V company, everything
was great again, they just told us
that it was not our fault, and they
would bring a replacement projector
right away. The "sad" thing was that
they only had one that was 3x better,
and we did not even have to pay extra.
Coool.

Friday night was approcahing, and what
a night it was gonna' be! Alot of
sceners had been drinking quite
heavily during the day (no names
mentioned, they know who they are ;)),
as the night drew closer more people
joined the drinking and at the point
were heavy drinking and old-demos on
the big screen collided, some people
just went half-mad. It was a show
without its equal when Darkhawk and
TrickTrax danced, jumped and
headbanged their way through
several classics.

After the demo show, we went out to a
nice fountain and countinued drinking
and talking. Anyway, as with most
other people the beers went to my
head, and I have this nice
non-existing memory of what I did
during those hours.

»CL0:After getting over the initial
hang-over saturday, it was once again
time to get serious. People started
handing in contributions for the
various compos, so I had to start
organizing them and make presentation
screens. The first compo was surprise
music, which had only one
contribution. After this there was a
steady flow of compos, leading up to
the climax of the demo compo. During
this time, I was fighting to keep up
as people brought me contributions a
long time after the deadline. Anyway,
I will give you a quick review of the
compos that were held.




The first real compo to be held was
the graphics compo, and it was a
pleasent suprise compared to last
year. The winner was Gafkhan/cromatics
with a very nice picture. One hour
later the 4CH compo was held, and
although there were some nice
contributions, the winner was a joke
mod called "IK+ fubar", I think they
were quite suprised themselves.

Next up was the intro compo, which had
5 entries. The clear winner was
Loonies with their "Sheep Dictionary",
a very funny intro portraing the
danish scene using sheeps. An ECS
intro called "Rouge", made by Copy and
Paste technologies, came second.


»CL2:The demo compo was won very clearly by
GFB(tm), with their Megademo $c. It
had alot of nice rutines, and, as
usual, alot of funny parts. You might
not be able to enjoy it as much if you
do not understand Danish. IRIS came in
second with a very quick but nice demo
by TrickTrax, following closely was
Unique with another short demo, which
had some nice touches, such as three
greetings for IRIS ;)

Anyway, after the compos it was time
for people to vote. There was just one
problem. Adonis forgot the votesheets!
Argh, panic ... Anyway we found some
paper and had to ask people to write
the catagories themselves. This worked
ok I guess, since we got quite some
votes. Just above 50% of the attenders
voted.

Early sunday morning we started the
counting, and although it was hard we
managed to keep Darkhawk from
votecheating. We even had a non-IRIS
member recalculate all the votes (thnx
T1).

Since the price for the projector had
been so high, there was absolutly no
money for prices. So we gave away alot
of weird things such as games(we had
been trying to sell them earlier, but
not all of them were sold), RAM
modules, food and similar. Anyway, no
one got really angry with us, so I
guess it was ok :)


»CL0:After the prizegiving, people started
to slowly leave the party place, this
meant that we could start cleaning up
all the shit they had thrown
everywhere. Darkhawk of course
silently slipped outside and worked
really hard collecting beer bottles,
then he left all the easy work, such
as carrying tables etc., to the rest
of us ;)

Cleaning the place up was not really
that hard, we just took a long time
doing it, but we eventually finished
and went to Darkhawks place, there
Darkhawk threw his body on his bed and
told me to update the homepage with
everything released. Then I could
finally sleep. 