»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »CL9:»BIG:We're not out yet but?!
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL0:As you have noticed, this time the
»CL1:Eurochart» is delayed more than ever.
This is not a phenomenon unknown to
the diskmag-scene - more like the
uppersit - the 10th issue is perhaps
one of the hardest things to do, even
to hardened »CL1:Eurochart» makers like us.

Basically, the 10th issue is often the
issue after which, or before which the
diskmag ceases to be released - often,
promises of an imminent release are
made, but to no avail - the 10th or
11th issue simply never sees the light 
of day - I could give plenty of 
examples which I won't since most of 
you have probably heard about them 
before. This is simply because the
editors loose their motivation to make
the diskmag - the high amount of work
for no money simply makes them want to
move on to something else. And in due
time, so do we.

It is not as if we are going to leave
you all with this issue, because that
is by no means what we are going to do
- we intend to continue making the
Eurochart for a while yet, but still,
we must face the facts.




»CL7:But unlike several other editors in
scene history, we intend to leave our
magazine with style, which means that
it will simply be announced in the
Eurochart when we decide to stop.
That way, people will not be sad about
expecting an issue that never comes,
»CL8:nobody will be sending in support to
no avail, thus wasting their own hard
manhours, and hopefully, everybody
will be a lot happier not waiting for
the "ghost train" - or ghost issue,
more like.

»CL9:It is not as if we are going to leave
the scene as well - the scene itself is
still a great place to be, and we will
continue to make scene productions of
all kinds.

»CL7:Still, we intend to pass on the
Eurochart to another group of people 
before leaving it - one which is able
to continue releasing the Eurochart in
proper quality, which means that
decent English and good motivation is
necessary to come into consideration
»CL8:(we hope to have several applicants).
Also, we will of course consider
people's intentions with the Eurochart
- what are they going to do with it,
and can we applaud it? 
This is what Crusaders did when the
passed it on to Static Bytes, and this
»CL9:is what Static Bytes did when they
passed it on to us. And so it is also
what we intend to do when we pass it
on to someone else, because we believe
that the Eurochart should stay the top
chart on the Amiga scene for a long
»CL7:time yet. Hopefully we will get some
replies soon, because if we do, it
will be possible to make some issues
together with the new guys which will
hopefully give them some routine in
making an issue of the Eurochart. 
Of course they will get the ASM source
»CL8:of it as well, all in due time when we
decide that enough is enough.

Applications should be sent to:
(Curt Cool) curtcool@image.dk AND
(Cytron)    cytron@gmx.net

»CL9:Hopefully we will be able to support
YOU when you take over!

And...
Perhaps the "netmags" article would 
seem inspirational. 