»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL7:»BIG:Demos: Art of the future - »CL9:»SML:A reply
»CL8:--------------------------------------

»CL4:            by Bucko/Depth

»CL0:Last »CL1:Eurochart» our very own »CL1:Curtcool»
wrote an interesting article on Demos
being the art of the future. Whereas
I cannot say for sure that the Demo
will have any significance at all in
fifty or maybe even twenty years
time, it is certainly a plausible
argument. »CL1:`Multimedia`» is perhaps a
media in itself and can be classified
alongside film and print, but is a
demo a multimedia production? In the
context that it is a melange of sound
and vision and other elements yes,
but demos go further. For example,
imagine if »CL1:Scoopex» showed up at the
next party with an animation done in
Scala, how much would the groups
credibility suffer? So as Curtcool
points out, coding is an art, but how
many people can appreciate this? It
reminds me of a time I showed a demo
containing a zoomer/rotator to a
friend, and he said »CL1:"that's crap, it
goes all pixely when it zooms in"»
Trying to explain that it was
supposed to do this because of the
nature of the routine was somewhat
pointless. What separates sceners
from the rest of the population is
their understanding of some of the
more advanced features of computers,
this understanding allows us to
appreciate the more ambitious
routines in demos. One of the rules
of human computer interaction is that
people are not concerned at all with
the underlying code of a program,
they just expect it to function. This
rule is just as applicable when
talking about computer art.

           »PIC:EC128x100»












So perhaps the demo will never find
acceptance outside the scene, except
in exceptional circumstances such as
the classics Jesus on E`s and State
of the Art. These Demos when released
were criticised within the scene for
containing lame code, "lame
programming and useless trackloader"
as Skid Row put it. What actually
constitutes a scene Demo is something
that is constantly under debate, and
is always a good topic to write an
article on :)

However, perhaps if the demo does
gain a wider audience we will see
something of a revolution the likes
of which the TV and Internet bought
about. I recently watched a demo,
which I think is one of the first I
have seen to carry a strong political
message. »CL1:Nerve» by »CL1:IQ 2000» is a well
made production featuring some
elegant design which carries some
disturbing images about the »CL1:Nato
bombing campaign in Yugoslavia». The
message is clear and effective, so
imagine in the future groups of
people competing to make a great demo
in order to get their message across
effectively, just as art has done in
the past on canvass and cinema and
music and probably every other
medium. The futures not set for the
scene, and with a computer revolution
just around the corner according to
several major players in the
industry, these are indeed
interesting times. 