»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
     »CL8:»BIG:World of Amiga Show Report 
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            By Bucko/Depth

»CL0:This years World of Amiga show was
held in the more glamourous locale of
Kensington Town Hall, after convincing
my parents they wanted to look around
Kensington, Zikes/A51 and I got free
transport to our second Word of Amiga
show.

First impressions of the venue were
good, the actual show was a lot more
roomy than last years Novotel venue.
Amiga themselves had a large video
screen showing demos of OS 3.5, the
Video from Annex's now infamous Amiga
theme song, and the obligatory 'boing'
demo, as well as, surprisingly, a few
scene demos which were spotted by
Zikes. Jim 'last best hope' Collas was
notable only by his absence, Petro was
there but most of the time he seemed
to hide this year, maybe he was afraid
of the Linux haters :) Also on display
was the Amiga NG case, although
unfortunately no demos were running,
The case looks kind of like a 3DO, but
better. It has room for 3 PCI slots,
and there is talk of a higher spec
model with at least 5. Amiga also had
that somewhat tacky but also
irresistible Amiga collectors items.
Amiga Cola, Amiga playing cards,
Cigarette Lighters, Cuff links, Pens
and many other bits and pieces were on
sale for over-inflated prices.
»CL2:The conferences scheduled this year
were not, in my opinion, as
interesting as last years. The Amiga
on a card crew from Siamese did not
make an appearance, neither did there
long promised hardware. One conference
that was particularly interesting was
a talk on next generation CPU's, this
went into depth about the design
features and various
advantages/disadvantages of several
possible hardware partners for the
Amiga MCC.

The rest of the show could have
benefited from a little more
organization. The Games Arcade from
Clickboom never got operational,
although it was possible to play
T-Zero there (and a fine game it is
too) there was no competition as
originally planned. There were free
'official guides to Quake' being given
away just for playing, which was nice.
The internet Cafe did not work and
some talks were rescheduled without
notice. One of the most interesting
exhibitors has Amiga Active, a group
of hard core amiga lovers who plan on
bringing out a new monthly glossy
magazine, the idea being they want to
be first to the Next Gen Amiga market,
good luck to them. Their stand also
had a beta version of Ami-Wipeout
running surprisingly fast on a PPC AGA
Amiga. Other exhibitors included
Photogenics, showing a now very
impressive looking latest version,
Amiga format showing a nice collection
of Amiga models from A1000 to A4000
and the usual mixture of user groups
and clubs from around the UK. Of
interest to coders and would be coders
like myself was a new utility from
Coyote Flux. This little beasty
converts 680x0 assembler code into PPC
native code. How well it works remains
to be seen but according to the
leaflet it is a fairly comprehensive
utility.

This year the Amiga tribute band Annex
played twice, and I was witness to one
such performance. The group did seem
to mime, and many people are sceptical
about Annex, but I have to say I like
them, after all, what other computer
has a tribute band? The last event I
was witness to was the AA Awards, the
magazine journalist Ben Vost and the
Author of the E-mail client YAM
received a glass boing ball and some
flowers, oh and a kiss from some Amiga
woman :) unfortunately I had to leave
before Mr. Collas joined the fun live
via video-link. the presentation gave
away the hardware partner as Transmeta
(although this is still not official)
and was cause of much debate on the
net over the next few days.

»CL0:Overall this Years World of Amiga show
was an improvement on last years, but
was still lacking organization. the
Year 2000 World Of Amiga show should
be bigger and better than ever
considering the MCC will be out by
then (and if it isn't I don't expect
that there will be a show) hopefully
the organisers can learn from the
mistakes made this year and make next
years show the best yet. And how about
them organizing some demo coding
events? If demo groups were given
cheap-rate facilities and Amiga
offered a cash prize I'm sure the show
would attract even more visitors
from around the world. 