

 SUSPECT - PARTY ZONE III
 ------------------------

 We have pleasure in informing you that, for the third consecutive year,
 the SUSPECT group will organize in Brest a meeting wholly dedicated to
 Amiga and its environment .


 GENERAL INFORMATIONS
 --------------------


 DATE :

 From the 26th to the 27th of august 1995 . 
 The meeting will start about 10 AM on saturday morning till sunday 
 evening .


 PLACE :

 ECOLE SAINTE-ANNE / 20 RUE DE LA MOTTE-PICQUET / 29200 BREST / FRANCE
 
 A main room, with all necessary conveniences (wc, cloackrooms, video,
 distributors), will be at the members disposal as well as other
 several rooms for the rest of everyone .

 From the station or from the Place de la liberte (main place of the
 city), the bus service *5 will allow you to reach the school without
 any difficulty . You will have to get down at the bus stop called
 Place Albert 1er - Fac de medecine then you walked down to the
 crossroads and the school is just further on the left .
 The journey from the station to the school by bus will only take
 about ten minutes .
 For the walk's fanatics, take the Clemenceau Avenue until the Place
 de la liberte, then take the Foch Avenue which will directly lead
 you to the Place Albert 1er not far from the school .


 PRICES :

 60 FF (Amiga,monitor and cables) / On the spot : 70 FF (Amiga ...)
 80 FF (in the opposite case)                     90 FF


 COMPOS :

 ACCORDING TO THE MEMBER'S PREFERENCE

 An entire liberty will be let to each group as for the choice of
 the production to present (Demo, Intro ...), the aim is above all
 to take part in . Of course, the winnings will be here to reward
 the novelty (and not the prestige) of each one . Note that this
 year a special prize will be attributed to the most pleasant group
 of the meeting .

 Each production will have to work on a standard configuration
 (A1200 2 Mb Chip / 0 Mb Fast . The size of the exe.file is not
 stated (avoid the intros 40 Kb) .
 The more members we have, the more domains we cover and of course
 the more important the rewards will be ...

    
 SPONSORS :

 The sponsors will be numerous this year (Mac Donald of Coat ar
 Gueven,Phill Pizz?, La Cave du Chateau, Shopi ...) . We are also
 going to get in touch with our faithful retailers (Materiels,
 Peripheriques, and DP ...) and the fanatics' journals .


 ADD :

 INVITATIONS AND INFORMATIONS

 We realized with the experience, that the invitations for the
 meeting should be paid up before the working-out of this one
 in order, on one hand, to know how many people will participate
 (this precaution allow to avoid the withdrawals of last moment)
 and, on the other hand, to allow us to set rapidly the awarding .

 Please send your correct details (with the assumed name of your
 group) as well as you will to participate to one or several
 competitives of the SUSPECT meeting to the following address * :

 Mr Yann HUGUEN
 SUSPECT PARTY ZONE III
 9 Avenue Clemenceau
 29200 BREST
 FRANCE

 Tel: 98.80.20.63 (at mealtimes)

 * accompanied by a cheque made out to : Yann HUGUEN with a
   2,80 FF stamp (a new one, please) .

 SUSPECT didn't pay off about this enterprise !

 If you want to have more informations, write to :

 Mr Xavier GOAOC
 49 rue des 3 freres Leroy
 29860 PLABENNEC

 MURKY (Marc)
 Modem 14.400 B / 28.800 B
 Tel: 98.07.88.67


 GENERAL CONDITIONS
 ------------------

 The spirit which made the sucess of the meeting will be retained . We can't
 and we don't want to pretend to a party as somptuous as the Saturne Party
 III . In a way , we complement this kind of event in a different style, in
 a convivial atmosphere and in a more qualified spirit of competition .
 In this respect, we would like to thank Tobias Richter, Doh, What has been
 DARK DEMON, OPUS MAG, all the team of the NGC group, the DEMONIAC group,
 the RAC members and number of persons because they had appreciated the
 organisation of the SUSPECT meeting which is a 'family ' organisation which
 owe a lot to its members and to the devotion of its circle .

 At last, the SUSPECT group releases itself from all responsability
 concerning thefts and others offences (illicit copies for instance) which
 may happen during the meeting but informs the members that all offence will
 be punished by the immediate exclusion of this one .


 NOTE : Alow some change and adaptators .


                                                             MASH / SUSPECT
