»BIG:»CL4:                        Co-editorial
»SML:»CL6:--------------------------------------
»CL2:          by Curt Cool/Depth
»CL6:--------------------------------------

»CL0:  Hello there dear reader. This is, as
you have surely noticed by now, the
quite delayed first issue of the new
»CL6:Official Eurochart» released by »CL9:Depth»,
my own beloved group!

  I believe you should go on reading
it now, but anyhow I can tell you
something about what we aim to do with
that celebrated brand of disk
magazines, the »CL6:Eurochart:

»  The »CL6:Eurochart» has now, by being
taken over by »CL9:Depth», become a very 
politically incorrect disk magazine.
We do NOT intend to leave any stone 
unturned in the quest to free your
mind from what certain self-chosen
scene gods try to indulge on you...

  We will do our best to make you
think about for yourself what our
scene is coming to.

  And we will write about the
celebrities as well as the small
unknown sceners. Watch out... :)

  You should watch the »CL5:obSceneities
»section closely for some deeply sick,
insulting and, rather funny, and
almost entirely true stories about
famous and not so famous sceners.

  You should watch the »CL4:EuroNews
»section for some news about most of
the crews on todays Amiga scene, and
some unserious bits as well.

  You should watch the other sections
for some interesting articles, in and
out of the scene (mostly in).

  You should check out »CL4:the Charts» to
find the great charts, and information
about every production or person, who
has earned a position in the charts.
And from next issue the great
»CL4:EuroStatistique» will be back.

  And then you could round up with a
look at the funny pictures in the
Gallery sections... Check out some
sceners in ridiculous situations and
laugh your own head off. 

  This should have taken about two
hours or so, if you read it as close
as you ought to, and then you can use
another hour wondering, how great the
mag is, and how nice and multitasking
the code is, and then check it out on
your A1200/020, and then on you
A4000/060, only to find it working
nicely on both. 
 
