
               A few quick notes from the editor/programmer
               --------------------------------------------


  This disk contains two  programs  that  can  be  run by clicking on their
icons; the main program (called PROGRAM  - clever, eh? (NO??)) :-) can also
be run by booting the disk.

 There are also two "Read..." files (this  is one of them!) which it should
be possible to read by clicking their icons on almost any system.

  The GuideUs file (which contains  more  info that you could possibly want
about the group, its members  and  their  first  publication) is a bit more
tricky. As far as I have been able to figure out, the program that shows it
(PPGuide) requires at least two different libraries and various assignments
to run, and even then it probably wouldn't  run on older systems anyway! To
make things a bit simpler for myself  (and  harder for you) :-( I have just
included the file and the program on the  disk, and leave it to your system
to figure out the rest.

  A little note on file names: Files  like  this are usually called ReadMe,
but I'm not so crazy about the idea of  files talking to me, so I call them
ReadThis instead. And the GuideUs  file  is supposed to be "guide'd" rather
than "read", and since it's about all of us I call it just that...

  As it says in GuideUs (under "What is this?"), the main program is an in-
tro/slideshow that requires the data  disk  "CreAm:" to run (properly). The
proper way to run it is with  one  disk  in  each  drive (and if you have a
newer machine with operating  system  2  or  higher it doesn't matter which
disk is in which drive even when you boot with them!), but if you have only
one drive you can start with this  one  and switch disks during the intro -
this disk is only accessed to start the program, so you only need to change
them once. (Loading from disk takes  about  half a minute on my system, and
after the screen goes black you have fifty seconds to swap disks.)


                                                 -- Ragnar "Won-Tolla" Fyri
