»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
     »CL7:»BIG:Symposium-Mekka k2-1 Report
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL0:The Symposium-Mekka seems to be the
only Northwest European contender for
a big demoparty which haven't gone
commercial a long time ago. The
Gathering features 4000 lamers and 300
sceners these days, and The Party and
the Assembly isn't much better. So as
you might be able to guess, our
expectations were high as we arrived
at the partyplace, the 'usual' hall in
Fallingbostel, Germany. We went there
by bus - a bustrip organized by 
Cytron which pretty much included most
of the Danish Amiga scene
(Depth, Loonies, Cromatics, Efreet,
Fnuque, Polka Brothers, Unique, Dreyer
) and some swedes (Nature) who at the 
time of writing seem to be the main
contender for winning the 40k intro
competition.
»CL2:As usual, our expectations were 
too high - once again SymMekka and its
organizers show that they are 
friendly, helpful and funny to get to
know, and it's forgotten that our area
of the hall had some problems with the
power supply in the beginning <CUT>.
Ib/Depth was also bringing 50 T-Shirts
which feature a vastly improved
version of the t-shirt design seen in
the winning fastintro of Symposium '98
- a blue top quality t-shirt with the
slogan "WER HAT DICKE EIER?" and a
dick only DM 25! (commercial off?!).
Anyway, the T-Shirt seem to be quite a
success, and it's also cheaper than
the official Sym2k-1 t-shirt... =]
Of course the SymMekka featured the
usual fun competitions, and this year
there was a table dancing competition,
in which Cytron won 8 of exactly the
same c64 game - "Vera Cruz" - which
(or so have I been told) btw contains
some x-rated scenes - so we're really
a dirty bunch of guys - exactly 8 
as dirty as the average guy. Another
competition was the Easter egg 
competition in which yours truly had
the strongly questionable pleasure of
trying to grab an egg which of course
broke when it hit my hands, thus 
leaving its slimy inside all over my
face - at least the audience had fun.
And once again both the winners and the
losers (me, Gizmoduck & Bakerman) had
the pleasure of fighting for a lot of
old c64 games. Yeah, we'll really have
to dig out our c64's when we return
home as zombies after the last
partynight of demolishing.
Generally about the party, there are
plenty of Amigas here - lots of groups
are present too - Nuance, Endzeit,
Scoopex, Depth, IRIS, Haujobb, Efreet,
Skarla, Ascend, Secretly, Unique,
Loonies, Cromatics, Fnuque, T.E.K.,
Abyss, Oxyron, Sector 7, Drifters,
TRSI, Polka Brothers - and surely 
some more which we haven't been able
to spot yet. We also have the pleasure
to announce that Moniq/Cromatics have
puked on Acryl/Scoopex' shoes - first
we thought it was the other way around
as that scenario seemed more realistic
due to Acryl's constant but charming
state of intoxication, and that the
reason why Nutman/IRIS and
Bifrost/Loonies were late was in fact
Skrotman's rotten driving as he crashed
his truck, seemingly in a very
impressive and artistic way. 
(Flooooot -ed.).

»CL4:As for the competitions, the graphics
and 4ch competitions were quite okay -
I cannot put my finger on who is going
to win but we will see at the prize
giving ceremony.






»CL7:The 40k competition contained many
releases, of which only 3-4 stands
out. The most impressive was
definitely the Nature intro which
contained calculated techno samples,
thus sounding very impressive - also,
the effects were very well-timed to
the music, and at least the vector
world etc. was pretty impressive - and
though the intro didn't seem to
contain anything new or
recordbreaking, there was lots of
effects, of which most were rather
good, it is a bombsafe contestor to 
the 1st spot. 





»CL0:Not to overpromote ourselves, but I
believe that Depth ought to reach the
2nd place with our intro "Kryptonite"
featuring 1Mb of oldschkool music and
generally oldschkool design - with
some completely new effects -
completely new as in never seen before
by any scener - except the coder.
The two contestants for the 3rd spot
are Darkage and Tulou - and it seems
as if Darkage has a slightly better
opportunity, as their intro was quite
a lot more impressive.







»CL2:The 4k intro competition was dominated
by Danish productions, thus featuring
intros from Scoopex (Optima), ex.
Focus Design (Corial) and Depth
(Cytron), and the Finnish Zymosis. As
there were only 4 productions, I have
no idea what order these will end up
in - the Scoopex intro featured the
most impressive routines, but no 
music whereas the Depth intro had
music but not as many routines. Also,
the ex. Focus Design intro had some
nice touches, and the Zymosis intro
was mostly a long scroller. I guess
Scoopex will be in the top spot with
Depth and Corial fighting for the 2nd
place.



»CL4:The wild demo competition featured
mostly crappy video demos. There was
some traced stuff, but nothing like
eg. the winners of The Party 8
competition, or the world famous
"Rofly". The most original idea was
the live reproduction of a certain pc
demo by Future Crew - imagine
reproducing all demo effects live, 
using real spots, cigarettes for
smoke, etc. etc. - but otherwise we
recommend a wild competition shown
outside the party with only this kind
of video MPEG-cum shitty messing
around with a video-camera, and after
you entered this competition, one
should be denied access to the
partyplace - just a thought.


»CL7:The demo competition is pretty
recently over, I (CC) am drunk enough
not to be able to hit the keys quite
properly whereas I at least think that
my English is still in a reasonable
state. The demo competition contained
impressive releases from Skarla who
with the famous coder Jamie have
returned after 2 years of silence,
a comeback which according to some
respected coders features the best 3D
engine so far. Neverthless the demo
did not show the potential of this
engine as it lacked a script of some
kind - or as some sceners put it -
IRIS would have been better off with
Skarlas 3D engine, and IRIS would have
been better off with IRIS' story.
In other words, the story of the IRIS
demo was very good, whereas the code
was somewhat dubious.
Other impressive releases came from
Nuance and Haujobb, and I guess they,
along with IRIS, will be competing for
the 2nd and 3rd place as I reckon
that Skarla will take the 1st spot
though short and badly designed. Also,
I hope that Depth will manage to get a
decent position with "Alpen-clüb '52",
an original joke demo about tantrical
sex in Swiss huts in Switzerland.

Well... I'm too tired to drink and too
drunk to think. Also, I'm too drunk
to drink, and too tired to think. The
Symposium Mekka is still the best
party around - so see you at 2k-2...
;)


»CL0:Epilogue:

I'm back home from a party where
playing Quake was not allowed, pretty
happy with the results, and able to
look back at a really fun party - 
cheers to IRIS guys for beer - the
kind of thing which makes one more
motivated for being on the scene - so,
cheers to the Symposium organizers for
giving us the best party ever.
