»SML:»CL7:--------------------------------------
          »CL9:»BIG:Capitalistic Scene
»SML:»CL7:--------------------------------------

»CL4:          by Leunam/Network

»CL0:  I   felt  something  different  some
weeks  ago when an attached e-mail was
received in my account..  It came from
my  friend  Darkhawk  who  sent me the
latest  Iris  release but I was deeply
surprised   when   I  discovered  this
dentro  was done just for fun and that
it had not been released at any party.
It  was  done  completely by Tricktrax
and  the  screens  with  texts  in the
middle    of   the   dentro   (sending
greetings  and  also asking for future
new members) reminded me the old times
of  Amiga  dentros which were released
just  for  fun  and where parties were
important   but   not   so   essencial
regarding  releases like in the actual
demo scene.  After the intro I started
to  think in the latest releases I had
received  and  I  was  a bit surprised
when  I discovered that the only demos
and  intros available were released at
parties  and maybe that the feeling of
releasing a demo just for fun was lost
somewhere.









»CL0:  I checked the last-year releases and
realized  that all the demos and/or at
least "quality" stuff were released at
parties  competing with other demos to
win...    The  only  stuff  which  was
released   without  parties  were  all
these  productions which can't compete
in    any   parties   like   diskmags,
slideshows  or  musicdisks...  Usually
people   wants   only  to  compete  in
parties   and  being  a  'little  bit'
suspicious  I  could  say  that mainly
getting some money at the competitions
could  be  one  of  the most important
reasons.   It's not usual to see demos
released  out  of parties just for the
sake of it, thus instantly marking the
release as a 'poor quality' product.


  Years  ago,  people  usually  worked
hard  in  productions  and when it was
finished they could release it without
any  party  just  because the demo was
finished.  Gettign money out of it was
nice, but always a primary factor.

  Another  feature  of this new way of
our  scene  are  the intro-packs which
were  quite  popular some years ago...
Hiding inside all these packs you were
able   to   discover  all  the  intros
released    at   parties   and,   most
importantly,  a lot of dentros, intros
and  other  stuffs which were released
out of parties, thereby making all the
packs  much  more varied and helping a
lot  to  the  spreading process of the
dentros.

»CL0:  Have  you  checked  out  the  latest
intropacks?   Most  of  them  are only
simple   compilations   with  all  the
intros  from the very same party:  The
Party,   Symposium,   The   Gathering,
Assembly,  etc...   which enforces all
packs to carry the SAME intros inside.
What  about all these dentros which we
had  before?   Bah...  When people get
acoustomed  to  make 8mb demos, simply
trying  to  code  a  300kb dentro with
something  more  than  a  3d engine, 4
scenes   and   a  tabletunnel/bump  is
completelly  out  of  question!   This
fact   makes   the   packs  completely
no-sense  in  a  scene where thanks to
internet  everyone  can  get  all  the
intros  from  a party in some minutes.
The  few  remaining  swappers are thus
only  capable of getting one pack with
all  the  available  intros  since the
last  party  because,  sadly,  nothing
more   was  released  since  the  last
event..
















»CL0:  Without  any  doubt, this example in
the  intropacks is the most appropiate
way  to  explain  how  our  scene  has
changed   and   the  fun  about  doing
something was lost as people is mainly
moved  for  the money, thinking in the
parties  as  a  way to earn some money
instead  of  as a place to be with all
your friends...

  It's  a  real  shame when you can be
sit in front of your amiga during many
months  without  having  any  releases
just  because people only want to work
for  parties...   I came to think this
way  because  after The Party 8 we had
to   stand   3   months   without  any
demo-like  releases (except some minor
parties & the Trashcan 5 announcetro).

  All  this  disaster also shows up in
diskmags  like  this  one, making it's
completion     really     difficult...
Perhaps   people  are  somewhat  lazy?
They   don't  like  writing  articles?
Actually,  one  of the reasons for the
lack   of  articles  is  that  there's
nothing  to  write  about.  I mean, if
there  are  not  new  releases  people
can't  write  speaking  about  them...
Writing   about  The  Party  8,  their
releases  and the news that occured at
this party, he'll be not able to write
more       until      for      example
Mekka-Symposium...      this     makes
releasing  a  mag every 2 months (just
like years ago) utterly impossible.



»CL0:  Of    course,    our    scene    has
disminished,  many people has left and
the  quantity  of  amiga  sceners  has
weakened,  but each of us could try to
give  a  continuity  and stop thinking
only   about  getting  some  money  at
parties...   People!  Start working in
all  you  want  and without seeing the
competitions...   don't  you think the
scene is becoming a bit capitalistic?

                        »CL1:Leunam/Network
