disc.font,8
«»
«»«ac»
«c1»*** ANDROMEDA ***«»
- THE POINT OF NO RETURN!«»
«»«al»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»«as»
«c5»When we all thought they were dead... they come back once more to show their
superior computer skills. From the creators of productions like Decaying
Paradise, Suffocation, D.O.S, Multica, Point Blank, Mirror, Mind Riot,
Surrealism, «c2»Seven Seas, Sequential, Nexus 7 «c5»and several other high quality
productions, Andromeda shocks the entire scene with bringing the best demo ever 
released.«»
«»
«c6»THE STORY«»
«»
«c5»'It all started with a pretty obscure idea about making a demo' Mr.Hyde tells
us... and wow what a demo. The demo is as you probably already know called
«c2»The Point Of No Return «c5»and is said to be the last demo ever by Andromeda.
In other words, this is the goodbye demo of the legendary norwegian group.
Some of the main Andromeda members have worked very long with this demo as
they've wanted to make a demo the scene will remember for a very long time
and because most members have lost interest in the scene. «c2»Mr.Hyde «c5»is the
person that have spent most time on this demo and wanted it to finally get
finished. «c2»Dr.Jekyll «c5»has also participated in this sucessful demonstration
along with «c2»Archmage, Fairfax, Interphace and View + HeadX. «c5»It all started a rather
long time ago. After Nexus 7 the Andromeda members didn't make anything at
all before September'95. Mr.Hyde and Dr.Jekyll went to The Gathering'95 and
got a few ideas about new routines, but didn't do anything more about it.
As school started again the friends and most of the members of Andromeda
started talking about a new project. You see, Hydra, View, Interphase,
Dr.Jekyll, Archmage and Mr.Hyde went to the same school in those days.«»
«»
«c6»NO PROGESS?«»
«»
«c5»Anyway, not too much came out of the talks at school as none of the
members put in any effort. Hydra was fed up with the scene in any case.
The first months Interphace made two great songs though - one very fast
tune and a beautiful slow one. Mr.Hyde and Dr.Jekyll made a few routines
too, and they got one picture from Fairfax. Time went by and nothing more
happened. It was Christmas time and exams. In the beginning of 1996 View
came up with some stunning raytraced animations, but no progress in the
demo. In April after The Gathering'96 Mr.Hyde, Dr.Jekyll and Archmage
got to watch some of the demos released there and got new inspiration.
However, they didn't do much because of the exams in May/June. In the
summer they talked about some ideas and came up with the design. Archmage
made the title picture and a lot of backgrounds, logos and other stuff.
The rest didn't do much. Some members moved to other places to study and
some went to the military to do their service. It seemed like the project
was over. Luckily for us, that didn't happen.«»
«»
«c6»NEW ENERGY«»
«»
«c5»In December'96 Mr.Hyde got a new Blizzard 1260-50Mhz accelerator card for his amiga 1200 and
a new harddisk. He began to code a lot in late December, January and February
after seeing the latest demos.
Mr.Hyde talked to the others, but they were more or less finished with their
stuff and didn't want to spend much more time on the amiga. Dr.Jekyll coded
a few more routines though. TG'97 got arranged and great demos released,
and the «c2»Andromeda demo «c5»had to remove some of its effects as they more or
less were used in other productions and had gotten old. At this time only
Mr.Hyde was still keeping the demo project alive.«»
«»
Summer arrived and even Mr.Hyde got inactive. He didn't feel the others
were supporting him enough, and was about to give up the project. Infact he
didn't do much at all the next months. «c2»'Real life' «c5»happenings began to take
more time. But in the new year Mr.Hyde regained inspiration after watching
some productions released at the Party 8 and some others released elsewhere.
The motivation grew when Dr.Jekyll wanted to participate more active again
also. And the project got a real boost when Mr.Hyde and Dr.Jekyll saw some
demos from The Gathering and Assembly the same year.«»
«»
Mr.Hyde coded even more routines and Dr.Jekyll coded two new ones also.
But things were not 100% as they should be. Mr.Hyde's computer started to
create serious problems, and Dr.Jekyll's old computer was hopeless to fulfill
the demo. Again the demo project was in serious trouble. It wasn't before in
early 1999 Mr.Hyde decided to continue with the demo as he had managed to buy
an A4000/060, 64mb RAM with a PPC card very cheap. Now he had to redo lots of the routines
to make it work perfectly. Dr.Jekyll wasn't involved in the making process
anylonger as he moved to USA to work for Lucas Arts.«»
«»
The various demos released during the latest period didn't impress Mr.Hyde
much. They didn't include many amazing «c2»innovative effects. «c5»Infact, most of
the routines he coded the latest years could still be used as they hadn't been
released by others. Mr.Hyde was very active in this period and fixed and adjusted
alot of effects. One theme after another were getting finished. At the summer
Archmage, which is still studying in Norway, draw the last pieces of gfx needed
and Mr.Hyde started to put it all together. According to Mr.Hyde it took a 
rather long time to put it together as Dr.Jekyll's routines were coded on
a standard A1200 and the combination with Mr.Hyde's Amiga with PPC card wasn't
very good. However, everything was more or less «c2»ready late in 1999.«»
«»
«c5»But then something unexpected happened, Mr.Hyde got in «c2»love. «c5»The amiga interest came
in the background. And the 29th of July 2000, Mr.Hyde got married! But as the
demo was 99% ready, is was just a matter of time before it had to be released.
The few members of Andromeda which still were in touch with eachothers, tried
to find a suitable party to release it. And at the same time Size had some fun
with certain editors at IRC telling Andromeda would never ever release anything again.«»
«»
Nevertheless, at the «c2»Rendezvous 2001 «c5»held 26th-28th of January in Kristiansand/Norway,
Andromeda released their best demo ever!
«c2»The Point Of No Return «c5»had 11 times as many votes as the second demo in
the competition (Read more about that elsewhere).
It will probably be voted the best demo the next 5 years as I've never
witnessed anything like it... and I've seen the rest of todays top demos.«»  
«»
«c4»READ THE REVIEW OF THE DEMO ON THE NEXT PAGE. TO BE CONTINUED BELOW!«»
«»
«»
«»
«e»

