disc.font,8
«ac»«»
«»
«c1»* SMALL REVIEW OF DEVOTION 2 *«»
«ac»«»
«c3»ZEROX/GODS«»
«as»«»
«c2»You may find it a bit strange that I choose to review «c5»Devotion 2 «c2»as
it never actually got released. But as the files prepared for Devotion 2
by «c5»Magic/Nah-Kolor «c2»got released two days ago, it's possible to review his
two sections and write a few words concerning «c5»the fall «c2»of Devotion!«»
«»
It seems like «c5»Darkus/Haujobb «c2»has been very occupied with his girlfriend and son,
and been a bit disappointed by Magic/Nah-Kolors' involvement with Devotion.
One of the two claim that the other is taking the credits for the hard work,
and lots of small things have irritated both.«»
«»
There have been a totally «c5»lack of communication «c2»between the main-editors,
which ended in Darkus «c5»leaving the scene «c2»after 7-8 years of duty, and Magic
being pissed claiming he will join another diskmag staff or start a «c5»new
diskmag «c2»under the Nah-Kolor label. Magics' side of the story was presented
with the release of Dev2dead.lha uploaded at the ftp site of #amigascne.
But the last word is not said, as the story of Darkus will be out in a few
days with the release of «c5»EuroChart #42.«»
«»
«c2»Now, I'll just write a few words about the files from Magic. He released
his «c5»Magical Moments and Party Zone «c2»section (apart from an interview with
Legend/CNCD, Scenish websites and the D.I.S.C. has returned article. -
They will most likely be released in «c5»Speed issue 59 «c2»later this week).«»
«»
Anyway, at least a few articles were spread around, like an interview with
«c5»RokDaZone, «c2»All That We Can'T Leave Behind, Didn't You Know That, Interview
with «c5»Mavey/Potion «c2»and Don't Forget About Me. These articles were supposed
to be in the Magical Moments section. Out of these articles I would say
that the interviews with both RokDaZone and Mavey were enjoyable, and for
those that like «c5»IRC rumours/news, «c2»the article Didn't You Know could be
interesting.«»
«»
As for the Party Zone section, there are quite many «c5»reports, results and
reviews. «c2»I especially like the reviews by «c5»Dreyer/Spoon and Kalms/TBL,
«c2»and the reports from «c5»Lanch and Dreyer. «c2»Read them. Nothing else to add
really.«»
«»
In any case, you can have some fun with downloading this Devotion archieve,
as you'll find a few interesting articles. However, it's «c5»NOT «c2»the same
as reading those articles in a nice context such as a real «c5»MAG «c2»with nice
gfx surrounding the articles, listening to atmospheric music.«»
«»
«»
«e»

