disc.font,8
«ac»«»
«»
«c2»*** THE GHANDY PRIZE ***«»
«as»«»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»
«c1»Many of you sceners have probably heard about the freedom-fighter from India
called I. Ghandi which freed his people after non-violent protests over 50
years ago. Today the scene has a man called «c4»Ghandy «c1»which is also
brilliant in his way with a continuing effort to please the scene.
This man has given the name to a prestiges prize which will be handed
over to a very «c6»special «c1»scener in each issue of «c4»D.I.S.C.«»
«»
«c1»To get the «c6»Ghandy-Prize «c1»a certain scener has to have worked a very long
time to give other sceners pleasure out of his work. He got to have
produced some kind of «c4»quality «c1»productions over a «c4»certain period «c1»of
time and done «c4»something special «c1»for the «c6»amiga-community. «c1»To get the
Ghandy Prize this special scener also have had to «c4»influence «c1»the scene
in some way with his efforts to provide productions or contributions.
Everyone that have done something very special can get this «c6»honorable
prize. «c1»He can for example have produced demos that have set new standards,
brought new ideas to the scene like setting up online scene-areas at
internet, showed stunning new pictures, composed amazing music, organised
very special scene events or made productions come true with a will to
never give up and a willingness to provide something fantastic or simply
given the scene something we all appreciate very much.«»
«»
To judge and decide who will get this prestiges and honorable prize,
the «c2»main-team of D.I.S.C. «c1»consisting of «c5»Lord Helmet, Ghandy, Darkhawk
and Zerox «c1»will in each issue evaluate the work of a lot of sceners and
bring forth the results here in «c6»D.I.S.C.«»
«»
«c1»This time the jury has given the prize to a scener that have given
contributions to the scene in form of productions and ideas for many
years. This person joined the scene 12 years ago, in the year of 1989
and was very active with «c4»frequent releases. «c1»His area is
writing, and we can reveal that he is a respected editor which have
written for mags as Hackmag, McDisk, Top Secret, Upstream and Abnormalia.
His breakthrough came more or less with working to lead the mag Compass.
He has set «c4»new standards «c1»in the mag world with a "serious" journalism
style also including elements of live coverage of events illustrated with
quotes. When R.A.W. brought the scene some revolutionary writing with
introducing the aggressive and ironic tabloid press, this individual
presented more serious articles in his mag called «c6»R.O.M. «c1»which saw
the light in the year of 1994. There can be no doubt that that the
winner of the Ghandy-Prize of D.I.S.C. Nr.11 is «c7»MOP.«»
«»
«c1»As MOP says himself ' «c4»It's a matter of producing the right material
at the right time ', «c1»but as we all know... it takes a lot more than
that to produce a quality product as «c6»ROM, «c1»and «c6»MOP «c1»surely has succeeded.
«c4»'Every scener had to search for his own identity' «c1»was another quote
from «c7»MOP, «c1»and he sure has found his identity. Nothing more to add...«»
«»
Congratulations goes to «c6»MOP «c1»for all the work he has done for the scene.
May he return to the scene. With this «c7»prize «c1»he gets only «c5»appreciation,
«c4»pride
«c1»and «c2»honour...«» 
«»
«c1»In the next issue of «c6»D.I.S.C. «c1»a new winner will be announced... 
who knows... it might just be «c4»YOU!«»
«»
«»
«e»

