disc.font,8
«»
«»«ac»
«c1»*** THE SCENE OF TODAY ***«»
«»«ac»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»«as»
«c6»WHAT'S «c7»HOT «c6»AND WHAT'S «c7»NOT...  «c6»IT'S TIME TO COMMENT SOME SCENE-TENDENCIES.«»
«»
«c5»What's happening with our «c2»precious scene? «c5»Is it any different from earlier?
Well... yes, the latest years a lot of things have happened and the scene is
changing very rapidly. I'll write about some of the «c2»changes «c5»and what's going
on.«»
Some years ago you found hundreds of «c2»adverts... «c5»and the address you were
suppose to contact was more than often a «c2»po box. «c5»I've myself had a po box
up and running since 1990... first IRIS NHQ, then IRIS WHQ, D.I.S.C HQ and
Gods WHQ and now... not much... it was closed in July 2000 because the
post office was closed too. Well,
I guess there isn't much point in having a po box and the rest of the
scene have found this out a very long time ago. What's happening?«»
«»
There are «c2»less software companies «c5»and therefore «c2»less new amiga games. «c5»There
are «c2»less crackers «c5»and the illegal scene is getting smaller and smaller.
There are «c2»less sceners «c5»and above all «c2»less swappers, «c5»less stampfakers and
less illegal activities in general... so what's the point in having a po box?
Why not use your own home address instead? It's really as simple as that.«»
«»
Hmm... why are there less swappers? That got something to do with less
sceners as a lot of people have lost faith in the amiga because of the
lack in development during the last 7 years. The reduction of sceners have
especially hit the swappers very hard because it seems like they're not
as needed as before. Why? Well... it's pretty obvious. By modem you get
all the productions faster and the latest years «c2»internet «c5»have totally
taken over. I think approxiomately 80% of the sceners have internet access
and get all the productions they want via internet. We can communicate
via «c2»IRC «c5»through conferences... like «c2»#amigascne «c5»etc. It's faster and it's
cheaper! However, the traditional swapping is more «c2»fun.«»
«»
«c5»The old «c2»pixel art «c5»is vanishing too. From 1996/97 «c2»photoshop «c5»and similar
programs have been used to develop high quality pictures. Sometimes they
are actually too good. There are some sites on internet which show some
original drawings and the copies from the sceners... and erm... some look
mysterious like «c2»scannings «c5»to me.«»
«»
As for coders... personally I think the best moments of «c2»hard coding «c5»were
a few years ago. The 2-3 last years we have seen these boring 3d engines-
demos, and of course lots of c2p! The innovative hard-code effects are not
that important anymore. The same kind of routines have been «c2»recycled «c5»alot
lately.«»
«»
The "latest" years «c2»less productions «c5»have been released, but they've been
far bigger and better than the productions "before". Another thing is that
the productions released usually get out at «c2»parties. «c5»It's probably because
the makers want to earn some bucks, perhaps spread their stuff better and
see it at the big screen. It's only natural when sceners spend so much more
time to create something than earlier. As for the parties themselves, they
have surely become «c2»more professional... «c5»some are more like money machines 
than parties arranged by dedicated sceners. Of course there are some exceptions
though, like «c2»TRSAC, the Scene Meeting and Kindergarden «c5»for instance.«»
«»
Then there's the fact that the average «c2»scener is much older «c5»than 5 years
ago. I guess most sceners have participated in the scene for many many
years. It got something to do with the «c2»bad recruitation - «c5»low number of
new sceners. It's again very natural when the amiga is not known as THE
game machine anylonger. PC and other platforms like Playstation and
Nintendo 64 have taken over. The consoles.«»
«»
We also have created a «c2»divided scene...  «c5»every time new equipment hit
the marked, some are left behind because they choose not to «c2»upgrade.
«c5»First it was the A500... but most people could afford the small amount
of extra memory. I don't think anybody quit the scene because of that
upgrade. However, when the «c2»AGA machines «c5»came a lot of sceners didn't
upgrade and time went by and most of them have left the scene completely.
No fun when you can't even read a mag without having an AGA machine.
Today it's these «c2»acceleators, extra memory and fpu. «c5»First you only needed
4 MB of extra memory... a small acc.card. Now you at least need a 1230-50Mhz
card to see some demos, a lot of extra memory and you probably need fpu too.«»
Where will this end? The scene will loose some more members soon... those
who still haven't upgraded and bought the latest acc.cards nor enough extra memory.
They still can't see demos that require fairly powerful computer equipment.
And now it's the «c2»PPC «c5»which is hitting the scene hard and will exclude even
more sceners. It's popular among sceners in the eastern Europe, but not
that popular in the western countries.
Nevertheless, the PPC was not such a success as first expected.«»
«»
And right before Christmas, the «c2»OS 3.9 «c5»got launched. The new
software, «c2»AmigaDE,
«c5»is unique as you can run it on almost all machines available (yep, also PC),
but «c2»AmigaONE «c5»is also the first amiga hardware in years. It's a single-processor card
which you can upgrade the 1200s or A4000s to run the new software. This is definately 
a more revolutionary move than going from ECS to AGA! 
With this card, «c2»new opportunities for demo-making «c5»will appear. The entire concept
will change radically. As the host machine can be so different, the speed and timing
will be a challenge. And above all, we may get a «c2»joint scene! «c5»Perhaps the PC and
Amiga scene will join forces to produce the «c2»best demos «c5»ever? In any case, this will
be quite different from the current scene. And what happens then? Some stay behind
of course to create oldschool productions. I'm sure even more «c2»hardcore amiga
sceners «c5»will quit the scene then.«»
«»
Ok, this was only a few of the «c2»scene-tendencies «c5»the latest years and a
vage prediction at the end. We'll hear a lot more about that in the
future.«»
«»
«»
«»
«e»

