»CL8:»SML:------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     »CL9:»BIG:Copyright and Other Legal Issues
»CL8:»SML:------------------------------------------------------------------------------

»CL4:By Adok of Hugi                                


»CL3:Note: Adok is the main-editor behind the PC diskmagazine Hugi..

»CL0:Most  diskmags do not have a Disclaimer, Impressum or "Legal Stuff" section in
which  they  clearly state who has got  what right for the individual parts of
the magazine. Hence they are not protected from ripping. From a legal point of
view,  it  would be okay in most  countries  if someone just took all articles
from  your diskmag and published them in  his own commercial magazine. As long
as  your diskmag is only spread within the demoscene, that is a minor problem.
The  scene  is very aware of thieves,  and by blacklisting them as rippers and
virtually  kicking  them out of their circles  it is a very effective means of
preventing  stealing  intellectual property.  But as soon as your magazine has
reached  a certain popularity,  it will surely also find readers  from outside
the scene. Then it can become important to have a proper disclaimer.




















Note: I am by far  no expert at  international law,  and I have hardly had any
legal problems with Hugi yet. That is why I am speaking very theoretically and
I  cannot  promise  you that the following  hints  will  be sufficient. If you
happen  to  be  a lawyer, law student, etc.,  I would be highly  interested in
your comments to this article.  Perhaps you could  even write  another article
with  more  details  about  the  legal  position  of  international electronic
publications.
In  most  developed countries,  the author of a publication  automatically has
certain rights.  This, however, does not  mean that these rights are respected
in another country. For an international publication it is therefore important
to  have  at least a copyright note  at a central place,  usually called Legal
Stuff, Disclaimer or Impressum.  Copyright is  respected in  most parts of the
world.  However,  be careful: "(c) Hugi Crew",  for instance,  is not a proper
copyright  note.  A  real  copyright note  would  look  like  this: "Copyright
1996-1999 by Claus-Dieter Volko". Unfortunately, "(c)" is often mistaken for a
valid  abbreviation  of "Copyright".  In fact it isn't,  and using it does not
protect any of your rights.  The only valid abbreviaton is a circle with a "c"
in its center. It is also important to specify the year of creation and either
a real name  or a registered trademark.  Furthermore,  for some  countries the
phrase "All rights reserved" is necessary.




















Such  a simple copyright notice reserves the right  to spread your publication
and everything it contains to you. It is not applicable to a freeware diskmag,
though, because it would mean spreading the mag via FTP, BBS's or mailswapping
would be illegal.  Hence, you need an  additional note such as: "It is allowed
to   spread   this  publication  provided   it  remains  unmodified."  In  the
German-speaking countries, for instance, the second half of the sentence would
actually  be  superfluous because it is  one of the author's rights  to decide
whether  his work is allowed to be modified.  But this probably does not apply
to the whole world, hence this remark should always be added. If you like, you
can  now add other restrictions, such as "it is not allowed to make money with
this publication, e.g. by selling it on a commercial CD-ROM".
This  should  usually  be enough to ensure  that  you have all rights for your
publication.  If someone now violates these rights,  you will be able to point
him to your Legal Stuff section.  If he still  does not apologize  nor pay for
the  damage, if there has been any, you can contact a lawyer in his country in
order  to check whether this country respects the rights you mentioned in your
Legal Stuff section.  If it does, you can start a trial  against the violator.
Of  course  I am,  as I said in the beginning,  only  theoretically  speaking,
because nothing like that has ever happened in the diskmag scene. Just because
we want to prohibit it from ever happening, this Legal Stuff is important.




















There are two other important aspects, though.  One of them is responsibility.
At  least  where  I  live, every  publication  needs  a "V.i.S.d.P." (a person
Responsible in the Sense of Pressright). If nothing else is specified, this is
the  publisher  or the (main) editor of  the publication.  So be careful about
what you publish. In extreme cases, you could be made responsible for it. Even
if  you write in your Legal Stuff section that the authors are responsible for
the contents of their texts, you are still responsible for what texts get into
your mag.

The  other thing is the rights of your writers and other contributors.  If you
claim all rights regarding your publication for yourself, you will most likely
get hardly any support except from your friends, the members of your group and
your contacts. The majority of writers is interested in keeping the rights for
their  intellectual  property.  On the other hand, it is no good if the rights
for  various  parts  of your publication  belong to various people.  Then they
could force you to change your diskmag and release new versions of it.
























Hugi solves  this problem  as follows:  The authors keep  the rights for their
original submissions which they sent to us. At the same instant, however, they
give us  the right to modify them,  mainly for  technical reasons.  This means
that  I  have  all rights  for a Hugi issue.  Still the authors  can get their
articles published in other magazines, sell them for money or do whatever they
want.

To ensure that the authors do not violate any third-party-rights, also clearly
prohibit  it in your Legal Stuff,  best by stating the legal consequences this
might have.  The more drastically, the better.  It will not  prevent everybody
from violating third-party-rights (just read the article in Hugi #15 about the
ripped graphics DARKflare sent us for Hugi #14), but at least it is a warning.

One last thing:  Be careful when  you open a web-site.  Some popular web-space
providers   such  as  Xoom  and   Yahoo!GeoCities  claim  certain  rights  for
themselves.  So  always  read the disclaimer  or,  even  better, open your own
server or use your friend's one. That's the safest solution.
 