»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
              »CL9:»BIG:Editorial
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:by Curt Cool, Cytron & Darkhawk

»CL0:Yes. Finally the time has come: This
is the last »CL1:Eurochart» of the millenium
(though some pedants would say that
can't be until new year 2000/2001),
and it is released at the final party
of the millenium, only 3 days before
the whole world presumably goes in
black, 3 days before some reactor at
some deserted nuclear powerplant
suddenly starts operating again though
the cooling system doesn't start, 3
days before all the banks, all
electricity etc. etc. disappears - and
all because the idiots didn't use
Amigas which are not affected by the
year-2000-problem. Damn', damn',
damn'! Typical!

But New Year isn't the only thing we
are celebrating: The Official
Eurochart is now (officially) ten
years old. The first issue was
released in October 1989, and we were
planning special issues, intros etc.
etc., but we miserably failed.
Still, our thoughts are with Dr.
Awesome and the other Crusaders guys
for they are the ones who started this
great tradition called The Official
Eurochart - and if you want to see
proof, just check the Eurochart
homepage:

»CL4:(http://www.image.dk/~kasperh/ec.html)»

where I believe all the old issues are
available, and get ready for a major
nostalgia trip.

Anyway, this is a time where big
things are at stake: As some of you
might already know, we have found our
successors in the Eurochart-making
business. Our loyal scene friends/
enemies/sex-partners in IRIS will
indeed take over when we are finally
burned out. A result of this is that
the Official Eurochart has now become
a joint venture between Depth and
IRIS, that Darkhawk has joined the
staff as main editor and MJ has joined
the staff as co-editor.
So in which direction is your dear 
chartmag headed? Well, as for now, it
stays the same, but I'm sure IRIS have
some ideas they would like to realize.
Watch out in the future!

And while talking about the future,
this is also the section where the
editors traditionally look into the 
great big crystal ball to try to 
interpret the blurred images of the 
scene future. Where is the scene 
headed? Unfortunately our crystal 
ball was used for playing "bowling 
with bats" (and extremely violent,
traditional Danish game) by some
extremely intoxicated staff members
during a traditional Danish xmas lunch
(with plenty of booze & beer, of
course not forgetting the pig to eat).
So that will have to wait until we can
borrow (or rent) one.
          »PIC:Cafe.128x174»






















Finally, we excuse for the delay - but
then again, when all the other mags 
are seemingly dead, we are sure you 
WILL excuse a delay. And after all, 
it's really just another 1 month 
delay. Really. But if we delay each 
issue by one month, we only have to 
release 3 times a year. Hmmm. Anyway, 
we still get too few votes, and that's
the main reason for the delay (and the
fact that we're lazy). 