»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
     »CL9:»BIG:Get Yourselves Together
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:        by Coma/Absurd&Apathy


»CL0:Having just flipped through the pages
of Eurochart #38, it leaves me with
pretty much the same feeling that
every other mag I've read the last
year (and before that too) - as usual
everybody seem to think that
everything concerning the scene is
dead and nothing matters anymore. It's
years since I exited a new diskmag
with a smile on my face, filled with
pro-scenish feelings... It's just all
too damn depressive! Not that EC38 is
more depressive than any other recent
mag (it had some bright spots too!),
it just follows the trend. "Swapping
is out" articles, arselicking
interviews with scene "legends" who
don't give a shit about the scene,
busy as they are with web designing
and 3D game producing (isn't it always
one of those two? Is there a retired
scener with a normal job? Well...) and
not to forget the endless small taunts
here and there on how inferior the
Amiga is to the PC, and how hopeless
scene life is compared to "real" life
(of course there absolutely can't be
any way at all of combining these two
lifestyles, can it?), and that it's
just ridiculous to continue with scene
activites after having passed a
certain age.
»CL1:We've been brainwashed with this stuff
for at least 5-6 years by now, but
still some of us just refuse to give
up and quit. Why? Are we idiots
because we for some reason choose to
stick to an inferior technology? Or
are we just like veteran car
enthusiasts who spend days polishing
their old beauties and occasionally go
to a convention to meet likeminded
people? I don't know... I just know
that I love the scene (yes, still) and
I hate to see it fall apart. If it's
in such a bad state as some people
want to think, at least we don't need
to speed the deterioration by
constantly repeating the same old
theme: "My new PC is much better than
any Amiga"... Thanks, I know! But it's
irrelevant to me! It's like telling a
car enthusiast that his beloved 2-ton
Chevy from the 50's is highly
ineffective compared to modern
injection engines, and besides, I
heard that Vector's new model easily
reaches 250 mph, try that with your
old junkpile, haha... Such a person
would be an idiot, and still we Amiga
sceners take shit like this every day,
if not from the local 13-year-old
Quake lamer, then from computer
magazines or even from interviewed
"legendary" sceners in diskmags. It's
these interviews that made me write
this sour article in the first place.
A person who can't even pretend to
have some respect for the scene just
because he quit it, can never be a
legend in my eyes. It's painfully
obvious that most of these retired
people don't care at all about the
scene, so why should we care about
them? Why should we have respect? I
save my respect and admiration for
people who really deserve it - people
who stick to the scene and contribute
to it, even in these utterly dark
ages. 

        »PIC:Malmis5.128x80»











Let's be spared from the quitters! To
avoid completely uninteresting and
demoralizing interviews like this in
the future, here you have a generic
interview which you all can include in
your mags:

»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:So what are you doing
        nowadays?»"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:Web design for my own
        company... and 3D stuff for
        some PC games»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:What do you remember best
        from your Amiga days?»"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:I don't know... eh.. oyeah..
        »CL7:State of the Art» was good I
        guess...»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:Any chance of getting any
        scene stuff made? Pixel,
        music, code?»"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:Haha.. no way... it doesn't
        pay!»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:What will the future bring?»"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:There will be much more 3D
        stuff and web design with many
        cool companies involved.»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:Do you still use Amiga?»"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:Absolutely not... it's
        obsolete crap... I just got a
        new P3 and it's an extremely
        cool machine... Try 600 MHz on
        your old miggy, hahah...
        hehehh...»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:How about getting the old
        group together and make a
        comeback?»"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:Hahaha... not bloody
        likely...»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:But maybe? Please?"
»CL7:Legend: "»CL8:Yeah.. whatever... don't hold
        your breath though...»"
»CL8:Scener: "»CL9:Ooooh! That will be very
        cool! Thank you very much for
        the interview!»"




          »PIC:EC39.128x64»











»CL0:Do you feel like you've read this
before? That's because you have,
dozens of times... Maybe I'm just a
relic from another age, but I happen
to like my obsolete computer and what
can be done with it. I like
constructing weird beepy 4-channel
tunes based on simple 8-bit waveforms
- completely out of date. I also like
the expensive and ineffective mail
swapping - just think of it... copying
a small amount of data onto deadly
slow 880k disks and putting it in an
envelope along with some other
irrelevant stuff, then actually SEND
the lot with OLD PAPER POST to a
similarly old-fashioned contact! Who
on earth could be that out of sync
with reality? Well, I can, and I enjoy
every damn oldschool second of it. It
doesn't interest me one bit if you can
understand that or not. To me swapping
will always be an important part of
this strange thing called the scene.
Internet has already done too much
damage to the scene. That's why I like
to engage in non-net, pro-scene
activities like this. I'm a scener...

»CL1:This goes out not only, of course, to
mag producers but to everyone who by
action or inaction contribute to the
deterioration of the scene. To coders
who can't find motivation and energy 
to code new amazing demos, to
graphicians who thinks there are more
possibilities for their creativity in
raytracing and 3D animation. To
musicians who are easily seduced by
lots of channels. To swappers who

think they have sent their
last letter... and all others who
have given up. Get yourselves
together! The scene isn't dead     »PIC:OldPeasant.336x80»
just because some money hungry
quitters say so. No matter how
hard your work is or how much you
have to do with your spare time,
you can find some time to devote
in the scene, to participate with
something creative, and to feel
you are truly a part of a
non-commercial underground digital
movement. I want us to show to
each other that the scene does not
only have a great and impressive
past, but also a brilliant future. 