»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
             »CL9:»BIG:Year 2000»SML: -
      Apocalypse -
          Millenium - 
             Doomsday - 
                Armorgeddon - 
                   Age of Aquarius
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:This is an article I've wanted to
write for some time, but I felt I
lacked more concrete info in order to
write it. I haven't gotten that info
now, but in my line of study, it's
pretty easy to write a lot about a
subject although you don't know enough
about it, so... ;)

»CL1:You know, we live in the last year of
this millenium, and that is in itself
an ample cause for speculation and
reflection, but this article is more
about the possible happenings when we
shift over to the next millenium..

»CL0:Now, I don't want to write about
millenium bugs in computers.. Many of
you might find this important and deal
with it in your education, but this
problem in itself is a minor one.
Sure, all of our computer systems
won't be ready for it, but the worst
that will happen will be
powershortages, problems in getting
money electronically, etc. And these
problems will be fixed immediately
after happening, as an army of
specialists will be ready to help
out.. Watching all the TV stuff about
the millenium bugs and watching them
blow it out of proportion is funny,
because I have not seen many
documentaries that address the REAL
problem.. 

The real problem is that doomsday
prophecies are often self-fullfilling.
If people believe in something, that
"something" might actually happen if
enough believe in it.. If a lot of
people believe that our western
civilization will fall on new year's
eve, that war and anarchy will break
loose, that hell on earth will come,
then that is what will happen, because
the people MAKE it happen.. AND this
is the VERY interesting point in
this.. There's always in the history
of mankind been a fascination for
numbers. Kabbalah (an occult jewish
number magic system), prophecies
centering around central numbers,
prediction about the future using
numbers, etc.. It's all there, and
something as huge as another millenium
is ofcourse the biggest happening in
that regard. In 999 people generally
believed that the world was coming to
an end, and that Christ would reappear
new-years eve when the bells on the
churches stopped toiling. All over
Europe this was felt, criminals were
released from prison the last few days
(and subsequently imprisoned again
when one could see that the world was
NOT coming to an end ;)), and the
atmosphere that could be felt the last
few minutes till' the new millenium
must have been like electricity in the
air.. People REALLY believed that
those were the final days, wars came
to a standstill, people made their
peace with their neighbours and became
overly friendly. However, they were 
also very swift in resuming normal
human nature when the world did not
end ofcourse ;) 

»CL0:Now, this is not 999, this is actually
worse! Back then, the people had one
religion and could cling to that. Most
did not panic when they thought about
the end of the world, because that was
the coming of Christ, who would
deliver them. In our secularized,
multiethnic, pluralistic, etc. society
of today, we have a lot of truths to
believe in, and no definite truth we
can rally to when in the same
situation. People might react in
totally different manners and will
incite themselves even more when they
see the reactions of other people.. 

»CL1:The entire idea of important
happenings, that are independent on
human dates and numbering, happening
because of some totally irrelevant and
random number being reached is very
absurd to say the least, but as long
as people believe something will
happen, something MIGHT happen as I've
written.. And this will be VERY
interesting to witness I'm sure, so
I'm kinda' excited to see what will
happen. Blood, anarchy and violence in
the streets? Most likely, but I think
people will calm down again after some
time if nothing else happens..
Countless other things COULD happen
however, and here the millenium bug
can play a role in making people more
scared, secret societies could try to
make some huge moves, different cults
WILL for SURE do something disruptive,
there are a lot of religious cults
with doomsday prohecies, who believe
antichrist, christ, whatever will
appear to them  around 1999-2001. Just
like in the year 999. If they're lucky
enough, they  might push the worlds
population into more hysterics and
maybe this and other factors WOULD
topple over civilization. One can only
hope, if you think life is boring now
anyway, haha.. Because it certainly
won't be boring then ;) Some months
ago, members of a (American, ofcourse)
sect were arrested in route to
Jerusalem. They had planned to cause a
lot of terrorist actions in Jerusalem
to speed up the return of the saviour.
Their leader thought he was one of the
men being written about in the last
book of the bible (hehe, you should be
sure to read your bible, it contains
much interesting material, and since
so many people use the bible for a
multitude of reasons, one can analyze
their behaviour when knowing the
bible.. Apart from that it is a very
interesting book), and saw himself as
the left (not right, no) hand of the
reborn christ.. Haha, americans
ofcourse, but it would be VERY naive
to believe that this was the only
sect/cult with plans like that. I dare
to foretell that many will plan
something like this, or something
bigger even, and ofcourse not all will
get caught in time.. This WILL get
interesting.. 

But cults and millenium bugs are only
small things.. The big issue is how
people will tackle the new millenium.
There're enough prophecies and
superstition to cause some people to
really freak out, but what about more
normal people? In Denmark I don't
think people will freak out, but in
the USA.. Well, let them freak out and
kill eachother, that would not be a
loss, haha.. Ehrrmm.. I saw something
on TV about how some (a lot infact)
Americans prepared for the millenium
shift. There were "survival" courses 
arranged, were you learned to survive
in a hostile environment (without
food, electricity, water, y'know if
the worst came to pass), and you
learned to KILL other people there
too, in order to "protect" yourself
and your family.. This is a very
central aspect about American
behavior, they value their freedom to
bear arms and they focus a lot on
their family and the ability to
protect them. Hehe, it will be
wonderfully interesting watching
millions of lame Americans freak out
and kill themselves with all of their
private arms collections. Ehrr, but on
those courses you learned to fight
with your body too, you especially
learned to break the neck of another
human, and watching the various people
to this (and there were all kinds of
people, this is maybe the most
frightening thing) made me think many
thoughts about the American mindset,
not one of those positive. I also saw
a middle aged fat American father talk
about how he had prepared for the
millenium. He had bought some rifles
and learned to use them to "protect
his family" as he said (jerk!), and he
had bought a LOT of conservated food,
he'd even built a little bunker and
installed his own watersupply. When
asked about whether this wasn't going
to extremes, he said that he just
planned for every eventuality and that
he honestly believed people would go
berserk, the watersupply would stop,
the electricity and global
communication would collapse and
generally that people would convert to
 beasts again.. Well, he certainly
isn't helping prevent this with his
attitude..

»CL0:I think that these are the extremes,
even for Americans, but as I wrote,
enough of that and the general
population could be pushed out into
much more hysterics.. It's sad to
think that IF a lot of really big
catastrophes will happen due to the
millenium, it will likely be because
people MADE them happen, without any
real reason.. Ahh actually I don't
think that sad, but merely potentially
interesting, but we will see, won't
we? :) Indeed, my predictions of what
MIGHT happen, might miss entirely, and
most, except fatalists and doomsayers
would hope they do, but.. We shall
see, this is not a far away incident
to be discussed theoretically, it will
actually come to pass soon. I'm happy
to having been born to be able to
experience a new millenium and the
reactions of human people because of
this. I think we will learn a lot
about human behaviour which we have
forgotten or have not thought that
much about in these western,
secularized times.. 

»CL1:So if you just thought about how HUGE
a party new years eve 1999 will be,
then think again. It might indeed
become a VERY huge "party" ;) 

»CL9: Annuit Coeptis - Novus Ordo Seclorum
»CL7:         (the Masonic slogan)


