»CL8:»SML:------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           »CL9:»BIG:Where is the balance?
»CL8:»SML:------------------------------------------------------------------------------

»CL4:by Alvin/Nah-Kolor


»CL0:Mags.   They  are  here and there, on this screen, on that screen.  They bring
you  the  latest  news  and  filthy  rumours  about  the  Scene, articles that
hopefully  does  challenge  you in some way or another, together with articles
related  to  everything  from  parties to drawing.  They are the medium of the
Scene,  the very things that bring us news of all kinds and types.  Mags, that
is what they are.

A diskmag is so much more than just articles though.  In the rare case of zyou,
the  reader, never ever having observed this phenomenon called diskmag, let us
describe what a mag is with a more detail.























»CL0:Diskmags  generally  come packed with articles about everything concerning the
Scene  and,  as  we  have  seen  lately, about things that really are not that
Scenerelated  but  generally  would belong in a paper magazine.  Diskmags also
include  news  about what has happened lately in the Scene, from details about
people  that  have  left the Scene to people that have joined the Scene and/or
new  groups.   In  addition, mags does often include adverts, partyreports and
sometimes  even  messages  from  Sceners  to  other  Sceners.  All this can be
considered  the real contents of the diskmag; it is the material based on pure
text.

However,  as most of you hopefully know (unless you read this on a website), a
diskmag is so much more than just text.  If it was text only, we could as well
use  Multiview  or some other tool to read it.  Luckily, this is not the case,
is it?

Diskmags  contain  visual  elements as well as music.  All mags come with some
kind  of  graphical  layout, some better than others and hopefully pleasing to
the  eye.  Some mags does also change this layout from issue to issue, causing
one  issue  to look excellent and very attractive while the next can look very
depressing and repulsive.




















Music  is  also  an  important  factor  in  mags.   The music provides another
dimension  of  the  whole experience of reading a diskmag.  The music of a mag
pretty  much  sets  the  reading  mood,  and  if  chosen  carefully to fit the
impression the graphics give, it can make the reading of a mag very enjoyable.

Lately,  there  has  been  some  discussion about the usage of fast mem in mag
after  mag.   The Scene Press is a true monster in this case, while other mags
reportedly  use  fast  mem even though it should not be necessary.  Those with
access  to  Internet  has  surely  also noticed that it seems like the typical
download  of a diskmag takes longer than it used to, even though the amount of
articles  often not is larger.  A question thus appeared to me:  why?  What is
it that takes so much space and is it really necessary to have all this if the
amount of articles aren't that great anyway?

It  is  highly  unlikely  that  the  amount  of  articles is the cause of this
phenomenon.   A  quick  look  at old, true one disk mags will reveal that they
often  had  a lot more articles than mags have these days while they still fit
on  one  disk.   Still,  most mags released today insist on coming packed with
Lha,  usually not suitable for spreading by disk at all.  What is the cause of
this?




















Music.  Right.  music is one thing that adds size to diskmags these days, even
though  this is not noticed while reading mags.  While most mags usually comes
with  one  or  two  modules,  there are those that come with more than that as
well.

Another  factor  is  naturally the graphics.  The are plenty of magazines that
use high-resolution intropictures, sometimes not even packed to decrease size.
It is obvious that such does increase size and thus download time.

The  question  is  then:   will  more  complex graphics and music attract more
readers?   Will  the  readers even care?  Is it necessary to include more than
one  or  two  modules  in  a  diskmag?   Will  the reader really listen to all
modules?   Another  question  that  comes to mind is if additional modules are
added  to extend the size of the mag because of decreasing amount of articles,
like some kind of excuse for the poor amount of articles?

























Let  us  first  take  a look at the diskmags of yesterday.  What were diskmags
like  five  years  ago, when the Scene is said to have had its peak.  How many
modules  did,  for  example,  Showtime  #1  have?   Was  it  one or five?  Was
Generation  also  full  of modules ten issues back?  What about ROM?  What was
its first issue like?

After  a quick look through old disks, old issues of ROM, RAW, Upstream, Oepir
Risti,  The  Eurochart, Eternal, Scene Lyrics, Freedom Crack, Stolen Data, The
Jungle, Top Secret, Showtime and Seenpoint revealed that the average number of
modules used were 1-2 (actually, 1.5).  Interesting is also that most of these
old  issues  had  more  articles than mags of today.  Upstream, as an example,
claimed  to have received 230 (!) articles for one issue (even though all were
not  published).   Upstream  also  had  the unique moduleloading system, which
allowed the reader to load whatever module they wanted.  Also note that ALL of
these  mags  came  on one disk (except Stolen Data and Top Secret, both on two
disks).

Naturally,  things  have changed since then.  New methods has allowed graphics
and  music to reach new dimensions while articles still are...articles.  It is
not strange that graphics takes up more space these days.  Call it evolution.




















Returning  to  our  contemporary  mags,  the question of whether the amount of
graphics  and  music  presented  in  mags  today really is necessary?  Does it
matter  if  there are megabytes of modules and graphics to make it a good mag?
What is it that matters in a mag, the articles or the presentation?

The  argument  has  been put forth by old Sceners that a mag should run on ECS
and  not  use fast mem.  There should be no need for a mag to use AGA and fast
mem.  However, we all know that this is not the case.  The only mag that comes
to  mind that could fit that definition is Trashcan.  Also, there are few well
known contemporary mags that actually come suitable for disks anymore.  Again,
Trashcan seem to be pretty much alone.
Let  us  then  look  at  some of the latest issues of the most popular mags of
today and see what you actually get when you download the latest issue.
The  Eurochart,  one  of the oldest mags still alive, might be a legend but it
seems  like its magpart is suffering quite a lot these days.  The latest issue
at the time of writing is issue 37.  A quick check of the mag will reveal that
the  total unpacked size of the mag is around 2.4MB.  Of this, around 1.6MB is
the actual graphics and music.  The 31 articles found in the article directory
make  up  210K  of  the  total size.  Worth noting is also that there are four
modules to choose from.




















Now, the amount of articles in this issue is extremely limited and it will not
take  anyone  long  to  read  it.  At the same time, there are four modules to
listen to.  Is it really necessary to provide such amounts of music when there
is  such a lack of reading?  There is simply not enough articles to be able to
listen to all the music.  It is also interesting that the intro picture itself
is larger than all the articles together.  What happened to compression?
Note  though  that the Eurochart actually is a chart, so there is a chart part
which uses quite a lot of small clipart-like pictures.  However, it seems like
it wouldn't be too hard to actually compress it all and save some space.
Issue  27  is  the  latest  issue of Generation at the time of writing.  Being
somewhat  of  a  legend  among  mags  these days, it is known for good quality
articles.  If we conduct a similar analysis of the diskspace as in the example
above,  we will find out that this issue of Generation uses around 860K.  This
includes  two  title  pictures and two modules.  The graphics and modules that
can  be located in directories amount to a total of 230K.  The articles, which
seem  to  count  to a total of 72 (according to the directory), are compressed
and  occupy  the  same  amount  of  space as the 31 articles of the Eurochart.
Everything  included  for  this  issue  is actually compressed, which actually
makes it possible to fit it on a disk (even though a startup-sequence and such
not are included) if someone would want that.




















The  ScenePress  is the last one that will be covered in this article.  Surely
this mag is not made for disks with its massive 4MB size.  It is clearly a mag
for  owners  of harddrives (which should be all of us by now).  The mag itself
contains  a  lot  of  graphics due to its design but the amount of modules are
only two.  There is also a good amount of articles present.

Three  mags  have been presented above.  In a way they present three different
categories:   the  unoptimized, the compact and the huge.  The Eurochart could
obviously be improved quite a lot to increase value per megabyte.  Generation,
on  the  other  hand, seem to be highly compressed, making it easier to spread
and  does  have  a lot of value per megabyte in that sense.  The ScenePress is
just  huge  and  not  that  friendly  to  spread.  It has good and very unique
design, but the size can be and is a problem.



























As a conclusion to this matter, it is quite obvious that mags are different in
many  ways  now  compared  to  five  years  ago.  However, there is a need for
balance,  a  balance  between  articles  and  presentation.   When  a  massive
presentation  with  high-resolution  graphics and multiple modules becomes the
environment  where  one  reads a few articles only, there needs to be a slight
adjustment  somewhere.   The  ultimate  would be a well-balanced presentation,
with  enough  music to last through the reading, presented with good graphics.
So,  editors,  before you release that new issue of your mag, think again.  Do
you really need all those modules and pictures?  If so, can they be compressed
effectively?   Consider  this,  editors,  as you put that next issue together:
balance.
