»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
      »CL9:»BIG:Doomsday for Diskmags
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL1:This is article 2 of my "negativity"
article trilogy , consisting of
negative remarks about TP, about
diskmags and about the charts in
general. It's just so much easier
being negative than positive, and it's
much faster writing depressing
articles, haha.. 

»CL0:The topic should not surprise you,
when did you last get a new diskmag?
And not the EC mind you, it seems like
this chartmag is the only somewhat
stable factor in the diskmag scene.
And that's great for us ofcourse, if
not for the rest of the scene. The
newest diskmag I have got apart from
EC must be.. Ehr.. Uhrmm.. wasn't that
SeenPoint#9, released around 8 months
ago? The diskmag scene has had its ups
and downs in time, but never has the
situation looked this bad. It's not
just that there's not been released a
diskmag in awhile, it's also that most
diskmags have DIED off, and there's no
one to step in, and carry on. Well,
that might not be entirely true, but
looking realistically at things now,
there's no diskmag that is about to 
be released in the foreseeable future.
We might all hope for Trashcan,
Insomnia, the new Showtime, etc., but
let's see. Insomnia has had a huge
delay, and Trashcan is lacking support
I think. Which is why Devotion isn't
being released either, the code is
there, but it seems to be hard getting
a staff of writers together these
days. 

Have we just been incredibly unlucky
with the release of diskmags, or is
there a general trend here that says
that diskmags on the Amiga are very
close to dying? It's sad writing
this, and I think I'm the first to do
so (ofcourse! Since there hasn't been
released any diskmags where writers
could write it, heh), but we might be
nearing the end of diskmags on the
Amiga, unless somebody can do
something and revive the scene. A lot
of the writers normally forming the 
core of the diskmagscene have left 
the scene already, maineditors like
Rokdazone, Fishwave and Sane. I guess
there are many writers left, but if
so, those writers are hiding,
hopefully ready to spring forth and
contribute with articles, if someone
steps forward and releases a new issue
of a mag. Saying that something will
get released is not enough, time and
time again, we see that promises are
only promises in that regard. We need
some mag(s) with a solid staff being
released and putting some stability
into the diskmag scene again, or else
that scene will disappear, maybe to be
replaced with 1-2 much lower quality
mags written by beginners in the
business, or maybe not to be replaced 
by anything. Amiga diskmags have had a
very high decree of quality associated
with them, atleast the most prominent,
and that quality has been the result
of years of experience by certain core
writers and editors, who have now
almost all left us. If too many
experienced writers disappear, we're
left to start all over again, if
there're enough people to do that.
Let's hope it won't get all that bad,
and that there's still a good amount
of talented and experienced writers
available. 

What it comes down to then, is to
release a mag. The EC can't push the
entire magscene alone, and, let's face
it, even if e.g. Trashcan appeared
with a new issue (and let's all hope
so, and support them if they try!),
that would not be nowhere near enough,
it would mean one mag besides EC every
1-2 years! Problem is, diskmag writers
look for inspiration and ideas for 
their articles in other mags. If
there's no other mag, it will be very
hard writing that much, and what will
be written would be more standard and
maybe boring too (this is written from
an elitistic "diskmag editors are
interesting and intelligent" viewpoint
ofcourse). Fact is, most real articles
in diskmags deal with other diskmags
or the scene. With no diskmag out to
write about, and with a scene that
only releases stuff at parties,
there're not that many opportunities
for a real good article. Not that
articles about anything else can't be
interesting or enjoyable though! What
this comes down to is this.. We need
ATLEAST 2 mags being released once per
year in addition to the EC, or we
might aswell declare the magscene
dead!

»CL1:One "positive" aspect of this will be
that I'll probably make it even higher
on the editor charts, as there're no
other writers left, hehe...
