»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
         »CL9:»BIG:Last words from Carp
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL0:Another  one  bites the dust, in the UK things are not looking good for the
scene,  people  are  leaving  and  nobody  is  coming  to take their place.
Recently  the  UK lost one of its best swappers of all time, Carp of Apathy
and Whelpz.  Carp, real name Steven Bond has been active on the Amiga scene
for  13  years  and remembers the great days in the UK when groups like LSD
produced  quality production after quality production.  Back then, it pains
me to admit, I was a simple schoolboy lamer ordering productions like Jesus
on  E`s  from Public Domain companies.  Even so when I first wrote to Carp,
with some 10 years swapping experience then behind him he was never rude to
beginners and always took on new contacts.
As  well  as  being  a  phenomenal swapper and supporting Euro charts, ABC,
freak  pack  dreams, speed pack and many many more packs and mags both past
and  present,  he also tried his hand at article writing and contributed to
many  scene magazines.  To best explain Carps reasons for leaving the Amiga
scene,  here are his unedited words that he send out to me and many more of
his contacts.




















»CL7:CARP / APATHY^WHELPZ QUITS THE SCENE

»CL8:You  only  have  to say the amiga is a dead machine an everyone goes mad, I
think the amiga is a great machine, I have 3 of them but it still true that
its  dead.   I get guys saying the c64 is still going, what a stupid answer
that  is  as  you could say the spectrum is still going but its still dead.
The  thing  is  most  sceners  have only been around 2 or 3 years and don't
realise how good it used to be.

There  is  very few new guys coming along with any real talent, and there a
lot of talented guys leaving all the time, so thing will only get worse.

There are some guys, who have been on the amiga a long time like me, ghandy
springs  to mind (keep well my friend) who have always supported the scene,
but most of the long time sceners have left.  Here in England the scene has
been dead for a few years, they're only a handful of sceners left.
























You can buy a second had amiga 1200 with hard drive for as low as £60 there
some  every  week in my local paper, there just no interest in the amiga in
England.   I  have  to  use  a pc for work, but this was not the reason for
quitting,  the  reasons were that very few of you were bothering to keep in
touch anymore.

I  know many of you have pressure of work (like me) also university but out
of over 150 contacts only about 25 were writing back, so thought what's the
point in going on.

I  know  many  of you will not be pleased with what I have wrote, but don't
think  I  do  not  like  the amiga I have been on the scene since 1986 so I
think 13 years proves that I was loyal to the amiga.



























»CL8:I would like to say a few words to some of you


»CL9:Blaze        »CL8:     great to have know you my friend
»CL9:Qix          »CL8:     hope you get of the ship soon mate
»CL9:Mj           »CL8:     keep well my friend
»CL9:Digger       »CL8:     are you still in the scene
»CL9:Splatterhead »CL8:     gone but not forgotten
»CL9:Hawk         »CL8:     what happened to you mate
»CL9:Mosher       »CL8:     it`s been long time           
»CL9:Stone        »CL8:     thanx for all the disk mate
»CL9:Powerslave   »CL8:     good luck with void
»CL9:Juhi         »CL8:     are you a dad yet
»CL9:Firestarted  »CL8:     what happened to you
»CL9:Haze         »CL8:     have you quit the scene
»CL9:Punisher     »CL8:     hope all goes well for you in apathy
»CL9:Angeldust    »CL8:     I will miss your letters mate
»CL9:Mr.x         »CL8:     what happened to you
»CL9:Budgie       »CL8:     you seemed to have disappear
»CL9:Thunder      »CL8:     I will keep in touch on the net




















»CL9:Curt cool    »CL8:     I will miss your sends and euro chart 
»CL9:Aztec        »CL8:     thanks for all the support
»CL9:Azzaro       »CL8:     did you go off me mate
»CL9:Evan         »CL8:     good luck with speed
»CL9:Nork         »CL8:     good luck with network & trashcan
»CL9:Gone         »CL8:     hope you get void active again
»CL9:Thorr        »CL8:     best of luck with whelpz I will look at the web site from time to time
»CL9:Mcr          »CL8:     thank for all the letters my friend
»CL9:Darkhawk     »CL8:     keep the good work going in iris
»CL9:Snow         »CL8:     hope you got your disk back
»CL9:Hooligan     »CL8:     I will miss you letters mate and thank for all the wares
»CL9:Zito         »CL8:     sorry to mate but lets keep in touch 
»CL9:Whizz        »CL8:     hope all goes well for you in apathy
»CL9:Strife       »CL8:     it`s good to see apathy doing so well

»CL8:If  any of you are waiting for you disk back, the disk has been lost in the
post  as  I  have returned all disks I had, and will return any disk I ever
get, and do not have any send here.






















»CL8:I  would  like to say thanks to everyone else who I have not mentioned, and
all the groups for being such good friends.

Sorry  to leave a lot of your names out but if I listed all of you the list
would go on forever.


I  hope to keep in touch with some of you on the net and I will have a look
at your group web site from time to time.

I am still on the net so you can e-mail me for a chat anytime.

»CL4:E-mail Steve@bond107.freeserve.co.uk

»CL8:By carp

»CL0:Carp  is  now  swapping  some CD-Rs on PC and Playstation with a few of his
favourite contacts.

»CL1:Bucko/Dth and Carp/Ex Scene 