»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »CL9:»BIG:The Scene and Charts?
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:Wow, what an amazingly lame heading
for this article, but anyway, the
point of this article is to raise the
question whether the scene might be
too small for charts.

Yep, that's right, everybody knows
that the scene has become smaller and
smaller in the past years. It's old
news. Whether the quality of releases 
has suffered under this or not is
another topic, but it's a fact that we
have become very small indeed.

Now, this has not stopped us from
carrying on as if we still had big
number of sceners available, and a
place where this shows, is in the
amount of voters for a chart. I think
people have gotten better to vote, but
there's a lot of charts or chart like
productions out there, and there is a
lot to vote on. However, that is only
on paper, there isn't really much to
vote for these days, is there? If we
accept as a fact that there're not 
many voters around, it follows that 
there must be even less things to vote 
on! Likely you haven't thought about 
this, but has the scene become too 
small for charts? Are there enough new 
people and productions to vote for, or 
can everybody enter the charts, 
because there's hardly 20 good 
musicians, 20 good (new) intros, 20 
good swappers? I think it's a fact 
that it is much easier to enter charts 
now than before, which is quite 
logical, since there was much more to 
vote on some years back. Not that the 
amount of votes has gone down THAT 
much, infact it has been pretty 
constant with around 150 voters for 
the biggest charts. That's not the 
problem, rather it might be seen as a 
problem that there's rarely enough 
people to vote for. 

»CL1:You might disagree and think there's
plenty of people to vote for, but is
that so? If you're a votecollector,
you know what I mean. On many 
votesheets, people have only filled
out the first 1-3 placements, and have
dropped many cathegories (best
swapper, best musicdisk, etc.). It's a
mess ordering those votesheets, but it
shows us that people do simply not
know what to vote for. Some don't like
leaving empty spaces on the votesheet,
so they vote for ages old productions.
That's ok, but the problem remains. IS
the scene too small for reliable
charts? We have the top 2 or 3 people
who get really many votes, because
everybody knows them and votes for
them (famous demos or coders usually),
and then there's the rest, the rest
who can sometimes be placed 10th, and
with the next issue 18th or 6th, etc.
We see a lot of movement on the 4-20th
placements on personal charts.
Actually, it's almost never the same
person who has the same placement
twice. This shows, I think, that
people really have no idea what they
should vote, and this chaos reflects
in the "lower" placements, because
there are too few real known/good 
people to vote for. 

Is this bad? Naah, infact it's
interesting, because people get quite
motivated when they see themselves on
a chart, and since we have such a
small scene, EVERYBODY can get a
chartplacement atleast once (ooops,
guess all the people who can't will be
very angry at me now, haha). I have
seen many funny examples of this. One
being a placement on the editorchart
of a issue of Scenetime. MJ from our
group was there, and he hadn't written
an article for over a year, haha.
Well, that could be because of few
voters, but ST always managed to get a
lot of voters, so I guess someone just
remembered MJ had been a mained once.
Anyway, we get some chaotic charts
because of this, where only the top 3
placements are quite stable over time.
As I stated, this is not really bad,
since we get a lot of interesting
shifts. It's the same people on the
chart each time though, and what
happens when a cathegory gets so small
that it can't even decently fill 20
placements? That is, when the people
placed 10-20th or so are total lamers
lacking any skill, or who haven't done
any work for years (the last is infact
normal, heh)? Then the scene will
REALLY have become too small, and
charts will get quite depressing. IS
this already happening? A little bit I
think, but it needn't worry us, I
don't think we can become smaller,
haha.. If we do however, charts would
become quite superfluous though, and
nobody would find any interest in them
anymore. This hasn't happened yet, the
scene is not too small for charts..
YET! 
