»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
         »CL9:»BIG:Network at Parties
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:This article was mainly written
because I saw the network at TP8 in
action, and got inspired into writing
something generally about networks at
parties. 

»CL1:You see, at TP8, everybody with a
netcard could hook up to the net,
download stuff and chat with other
partyattenders over that network.
Well, it was mostly for PC owners
ofcourse, but many A4000 owners have
gotten themselves a netcard, and one 
of the highlights of a party for them, 
is the network, as it must be for all 
the PC owners too. 

»CL0:OK, being able to download stuff and
chat with friends is cool, right? Yes,
ofcourse it is, but I think and want
to show, that network at parties is a
dangerous and lame thing, which kills
the old partyspirit, and makes
everybody less active, although it
does create some new partyspirit. 

»CL1:What's so bad about downloading stuff?
The bad thing is that you miss the
party and only hunt for interesting
stuff, meaning PORNO and MPG movies.
This is a waste of party time I think,
especially if you're a scener
attending a party. It's ok if you
attend because you want to leech, but
sceners have better things to do, than
filling up their HD's with porno.
Other stuff you say? Yep, one can get
the releases (if you're lucky, heh),
but that's no problem getting anyway,
not when you have a modem, which all
netcard owners have anyway, I guess.
So, being able to downlod interesting
stuff at parties is a waste of time in
my book. Time that should be spent on
talking to friends and enjoying the
party, boozing, watching productions,
whatever. 

But, chatting to friends over the
network, isn't THAT cool then? Isn't
that what gets you into the party
mood? Yes, but NOT via network! Infact
the very thing that made me write this
article in the first place, was seeing
how some of our group members chatted
via the IRC. It's easier talking to
your friends via IRC, you don't have
to actually see them for real, and
some people might feel more relaxed
that way. This is sooo lame, and could
kill social relations. I don't know
whether it's only me who feels this
way, but seeing a person chat with a
guy 3 rows in front of him via IRC,
instead of meeting him "realtime"
strikes me as utterly lame. Not to
mention a funny thing which I saw at
our table. 2 groupmembers sitting NEXT
to eachother wrote eachother via IRC
when they had something to say
privately to the other, instead of
talking. Hehe, this really motivated
me into writing this network article.
When people do that, how far have we
then progressed from the good old
parties, where you met, talked with
your friends, and competed against
them? Very far, and I'm not at all
talking about playing games via
network, etc. That's not our problem,
but it's what makes most PC users
attend TP. The network that is. I
can't help feeling that people could
get much more enjoyment out of a party
by dropping the lame network, and 
going around, talking to people 
instead. If nothing else, they'd learn 
to interact socially, hah! 

But yes, I know, the very network
lamers I have ridiculed in this
article will say that I neglect to
write about the partyfeeling you get
when chatting on the party network,
and using it to good effect. They'll
say that this is a great thing, and
that it makes their party more
enjoyable, and that they prefer that
to other, older ways of partying. All
well and good, but that is not my
view, I see the network as a hindrance
for a good sceneparty really (if it
was a leecher/gamer party, network
would ofcourse be neccessary and a fun
thing too), which should not center
itself around networking at all!
People spend all their time in front
of their sily screens, not doing
anything productive, but only chatting
and leeching. This is not how a
sceneparty should be, and I hope we'll
never get good networking games,
because then it'll be much worse, heh.
Imagine no demos contributing at a
party, because everybody are playing
games via network, haha.. So, my
point.. Network is a cool thing in the
right place, but for sceners attending
a party, the network should NOT be the
centerpiece of attraction!
