
»CL9:THE PARTY 99 REPORT
»CL0:
Ok, this is business as usual, meaning
that it is time to begin on my eight
report from that quite known party
series, and what can I say? Right now
I'm surrounded by a throng of mindless
people, thinking the best compo ever
is the burgereating compo. It has just
finished, and people are returning to
their PC's for another go at Halflife,
Quake, Unreal Tournament, etc., here
at this "»CL8:netparty»CL0:" as they call it...

The location of TP is the same as last
year, namely the northern danish city
of Aars, so the facilities are also
pretty much the same. That means three
halls, being able to take in about
3500 people with their computers,
without too much problems with the
power. It also means insufficient
toilet facilities and a separate
sleeping hall and shower facility at a
school located some distance away from
TP. Otherwise, the soundequipment is
up to the standards for sure, although
I might be somewhat unable to judge
that, being blasted away in the
Multichannel compo as I am right now
»CL5;)»CL0: My group ofcourse wanted to sit
close to the action, so we're paying
for it now. Haha, you should really be
able to hear this piece of music
playing now. I think some eardrums
might get punctated, hehe.. Ahh well,
I'm writing this the second day of TP,
and that is the 28th December.

»CL0:Business as usual, and that might be
the keyphrase to describe this party
you might think. Afterall TP has been
the same for some years now. Anyway,
I think there are quite some
differences this year, and I'll see if
I have the time to point out most of
them. The EC will be released after I
finish this article, so I won't be
keeping you for long.

What has been business as usual has
been most of the compo's, the amounts
of attenders, the amount of sceners
vs. the amount of gamers, the general
facilities, the city of Aars and stuff
like that. Things are as you would
expect if you have visitted TP before.
However, this time around some things
have changed in subtle ways. The 4k
introcompo is gone, they tried to drop
the C64 gfx and music compo's too, and
they have introduced some more,
completely needless compo's for PC's..
Again »CL5:;) »CL0:The PC had 4 different
democompo's: Linux, Java, Non
Accelerated Demo (»CL6:the traditional») and
accelerated. Not to bore you with
those kinds of things, but it is quite
irritating, and besides the Java
compo, they might aswell combine the
others into one. Well, who cares, but
they sure suck up some prizemoney. Not
that we would get more prizemoney if
they were dropped though, heh. This
year the entrance fee was 50Dkr higher
than last year, and the higher fee
can't be explained by higher prices or
more expensive facilities I think, as
they have got a complete and free
network sponsored from Compaq again
this year. I don't know where the
money goes, but sit down and think..
400Dkr for attending 3 days (»CL6:if not
paying in advance, which almost
2000 people did this year»CL0:), getting
power and network access. It really is
one astronomical sum, totally out of
proportion with the entrancefees of
other parties. You might be used to
it, buuuut..
            
            »PIC:Malmis4.128x50»







Anyway, the sceners on all platforms
present here really have to huddle
together to stand out in the masses
of gamers, porno voyeurs, leechers,
and let's say it straight »CL7:LAMERS»CL0:,
who are present at TP this year. I
have already touched upon a sad
example of this in my introduction.
We sit right in front of the
bigscreen, as close as possible, and
during the Body Crashing and
Burgereating contest, we were totally
drowned in »CL7:HUUGE»CL0: masses of people
wanting to see the action. And the
organizers even sat up a huge
videocamera to film each event. Pretty
much attention for such silly
contests.. »CL7:ESPECIALLY»CL0: because the most
watched compo after those two (»CL6:which
must have been the accelerated PC demo
compo I guess»CL0:) only drew 1/4 of the
crowds. »CL8:HEEEELLO»CL0:? What kind of
demoparty is this? When the majority
of the attenders prefer watching
people eating burgers as fast as
possible as opposed to demos, things
are getting »CL7:WAY»CL0: out of hand. As one
person told me, he had repeatedly
heard the party being referred to as
the "»CL8:netparty»CL0:" by gamers. Arghh, how
lame is that?

The usual crowds of gamers and lack
of creative computerusers aside, there
have been other problems with this TP.
The worst, and I really do mean »CL6:WORST»
contribution delivery system ever
plays a huge part in this. They used
a system called "»CL8:Linker»CL0:" to handle
contribution uploads to the network
and to sort them for the organizers to
retrieve. This worked amazingly bad. I
wouldn't say that half of the uploads
just disappeared, it might have been
even more. We first noticed this
around the deadline of the Amiga
intros, where 4-5 groups who had
uploaded their intro's had to be found
again, because the organizers couldn't
find their intros. With some effort
they managed to include all the intros
except an intro by the group Replay
into the competition, but this was
very unproffesional ofcourse. They
promised to show the names of the
missing introgroups at the bigscreen.
And so they did.. »CL6:AFTER»CL0: the
introcompetition! Very bad
communication and organizing there.
Luckily for Des Moines and Loveboat,
they actually managed to deliver their
intro »CL6:WHILE» the other intros were
being shown, and the Loveboat intro
was then shown as the last one. This
is a new record I guess »CL7:;)»CL0:

Wheew! I take the liberty of jumping
confusingly to another topic right
now, as the Amiga democompo has just
finished. Well, good news and bad
news for those in the Amiga scene

who place the survival of it to the
demos released at TP. Some good
groups released some good demos, and
TBL also had a very good demo shown,
but there were only 7 entries, 1 of
them the 40kb intro from Replay.
Hrmm, but I'm not very objective
here ofcourse, as we released a demo
too, and ofcourse I hope we'll do
well, although TBL will almost
certainly win, so no more about that
compo here, instead you should run
out and get all the Amiga relevant
releases from here as soon as you
can.

»PIC:Curts.256x93»












As for the other relevant (»CL7:and not
so relevant»CL0:) competitions, there
seemed to be a general tendency
towards fewer releases than is
normal. However, the quality of the
things being released was still ok.
As for Amiga specific things, the
general trend is ofcourse less and
less, but still we managed to hold
our own, and we managed to release
some pretty decent things. Keep it
up folks, this is quite important
for us.. Ahh, I'm stating the
obvious and being an irritated old
grumpyhead now, so I'd better reach
the conclusion and get some sleep..

All in all, trying to be objective,
this party has, as a computer
party, not been that good, and as it
has been for some time now, my
suggestion is to focus on the
Symposium as the party to release
your releases. Although the germans
down there are heavily disposed
towards voting for their own »CL5;)»CL0: The
main things that most sceners enjoy
are good productions and being
together with other sceners. Many
other smaller factors can raise or
lower the overall impression, things
like movieshows, funny events,
things happening on the big screen
outside of competitions, organizing,
etc., are part of this. In these
categories, TP has scored really low
for quite some years, mainly due to
the fact that it is not aimed
directly at sceners, although they



readily enough use us to advertize
themselves. And when the vast
majority of visitors do not care
about the scene, the situation is
getting untenable. When that is
said, I still had fun on this party,
although everything has a certain
"»CL6:»been there, done that»" flair about
it, and that isn't to be taken as
something positive in this
regard. Being together with scenish
friends and watching productions
is still very enjoyable however »CL5::)»CL0:

                  »CL4:DARKHAWK»CL0:
