»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »CL9:»BIG:The Amiga Tattoo Plan
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:Yes, you know.. Tattoo's are those
things mad people deface their bodies
with? Something you'd most definetely
NOT want to do, right? Read on...

»CL1:Some time ago (in 1998 infact), a
female scener called E-Liza, from the
crew called Maximum, thought that it'd
be cool having a small Amiga Boing
ball tattoed on her upper left arm,
and not knowing what would come of it,
she told this to Darkhawk. Darkhawk in
turn, thought it'd an original and fun
idea, and told her to contact Petro
Tyshchenko, the president of Amiga
Int., to ask for permission to use the
trademark. He then went off to bed..

When he awoke, he awoke with one
thought uppermost in his mind... "HEY!
Getting an Amiga LOGO tattoo would be
a GREAT idea!". The longer he thought
about it (5 mins.), the more he liked
the idea. Since he'd always been a
complete Amiga fanatic, it would be
completely in line with his
personality to get such a tattoo.
After all, the tattoo would be for
life, but so should the Amiga be, so
there was no problem there. But what
if he grew tired of his Amiga's and
sold them? Then he'd still have to be
reminded for the rest of his life
about the Amiga. And this was no bad
thing, should he ever be so disloyal
to drop the Amiga, he'd deserve to
wear this tattoo as a mark of his
shame and guilt for the rest of his
life, so no problems there. 

That taken care of, Darkhawk wasted no
time, but called Adonis, whom he knew
would like the idea. No sense in being
the only one to get such a tattoo,
when he could share it with the rest
of the Amiga fanatics out there. As
expected, Adonis took about one and a
half second to reply: "yes" he said,
and thus there were 2 people with the
same plan. By the end of the day, that
number had doubled to 4 Amiga fanatics
wanting an Amiga tattoo on their left
arm, since Darkhawk managed to
convince Nutman and also E-Liza, who
could then have the ball on one arm,
and the Amiga logo on the other. The
future seemed bright. 

»CL0:But then problems arose. What logo
should be used? The new Amiga logo
from Amiga Int. (the one with the red
dot) or the old logo used in the
OCS/ECS times? Adonis and Darkhawk had
no second thoughts about this. It
would have to be the old logo
ofcourse, because that logo was
synonymous with the best of  the
Amiga, the best times, the best scene
productions, the best experiences.
Also, one could not be sure that the
new Amiga wouldn't get a new logo, and
then you'd be stuck with a "not so
meaningful" logo tattoed on your
forearm. This had to be perfect they
thought. Nutman wanted the new logo
though, being a new scener, and liking
the new logo better. E-Liza was
neutral in this. Already the problems
mounted, but after our heroes had
decided their course, it was time to
gather the logo's. The new one was
easy, Darkhawk had several stickers
with the new logo. The old one proved
trickier to acquire, but in the end,
the Amiga oldtimer Buzz helped out
with a nice picture of the Kickstart
1.0 disk. Everything was beginning to
get ready after this logo was printed
out to paper and sent to E-Liza. Now,
only 2 things lacked. Money, and for
some, courage.. It would cost about
800 Danish kroner getting the old
Amiga logo tattoed on the left arm, in
black/white, but Adonis and  Darkhawk
wanted it in colors ofcourse, making
it more expensive. Instead of thinking
about how to gather enough money, the
Logo Conspiracy tried to convince even
more sceners to get a tattoo together
with them, or at the same time
atleast, thus forming a subculture
inside the Amiga subculture, where
only the most FANATICAL and LOYAL
people would be members. They had
grand dreams about the future, where
true Amiga believers would identify
themselves on their tattoos in a
hostile PC dominated world..
Cytron/Depth, Cupid/Unique, Buzz and
others seemed a bit positive about
getting this tattoo, but they still
thought it a huge and IRREVERSIBLE
project, so they were not as sure as
the original 4 were. 

»CL1:Some called them mad, even within
their own groups, where there should
have been plenty of Amiga fanatics,
people thought them weird and somewhat
blown in the head. But the 4 were
determined to succeed, and the day
where they had enough money and
courage to take this, the final step,
came ever closer.. 

But THEN, the usual happened.. Some
people got very cold feet. Nutman
chickened out, officially due to his
new girlfriend, E-Liza lived with her
parents, and they would not be happy
about her getting tattoed and Adonis
said he didn't  have the money. Thus,
the party of four Amiga heroes were
down to just 1. But  that one didn't
flinch, and in the middle of July it
happened! He got an Amiga  tattoo, and
it was cheap too, only 450 Dkr in
color. He was happy! Now he  would
come to be known as the avatar of
Amiga, the paragon of the Amiga
spirit!

»CL9:And what happened? 1 week later his HD
crashed totally, and his latest backup
was from 1996. 1 month after that the
sound on his A4000 died completely and
since he got that tattoo, his group
hasn't made a single production,
making him inactive as a swapper and
organizer, and no new diskmags apart
from EC appeared, making him inactive
as an editor.. Now, this particular
paragon feels like shouting: COME ON!
I CAN TAKE IT! but I do hope that the
world will grow to accept my tattoo
soon, and will not let any more
calamities befall me ;) 

»CL7:PSST... For pictures of it, you can
check out the gallery.
