»CL9:--------------------------------------
   »CL8:»BIG:HOW TO MAKE A LOT OF DEMOS
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Darkhawk/iris

»CL0:It's actually quite funny, everytime I
see a demo which takes itself 
seriously, and which I can clearly see 
is made using THAT tool, I enjoy
watching it and smile all the
time, while considering the group
which has this time made a production
using THAT tool. Funny how
unproductive crews, groups you
haven't heard of before or pseudo
cracking groups can make a somewhat
wellrounded production using THAT
tool, although the effects are getting
older and you can still discern it's
true nature by looking at the effects,
particularely the screen clear
effects. 

OK, let's not postpone it anylonger,
I'm ofcourse writing about the
powerful (and somewhat old) successor
of the ancient DemoMaker. The name is
Demomaniac, a very effective tool for
creating demos. If you're "skilled"
enough, you can almost produce a demo
where you can't see that's it's not
coded by the group. Almost, but not
quite. Over time I've made a list of
groups who've made productions using
Demomaniac. This list is beyond a
shadow of doubt, I've even
disassembled the productions to be
sure. It would be quite funny to
publish it, there are quite a few
groups on the list that are at least
somewhat known. But no, it really
would be unfair towards those groups,
like condemning them for using
Demomaniac, heh. It was more fun in
the old days, when absolute lamers (or
to be fair, beginners) "made" demos
using DemoMaker. However, those demos
were much easier to discern for what
they were than Demomaniac is ;)

Anyway, what I wanted to state was
that it's not that seldom that a group
releases a production made with
Demomaniac. I won't delve into what
that implies about the group, in a
scene where the use of such tools is
widely believed to show lack of skills
or even outright lameness. There might
be some defending the use of
Demomaniac, stating that without a
coder in their group, they need to
convey messages and displays of their
other prowess, and then they have to
use that tool. But I guess such people
should just join groups with a "real"
coder then.

As a last note, one of the most funny
Demomaniac demos I've seen was a
German one, with ripped music, lots of
Demomaniac effects and a text stating
how long that demo had taken to
develop (several years) ;)
Unfortunately I've deleted it, I
should've kept it and seen it when I
felt like laughing, hehe..

»CL1:      DARKHAWK/iris   