»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
      »CL8:»BIG:A REPLY TO SHADE/DIGITAL 
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL4:       Written and Presented By
           Michael/Anathema

»CL0:This article will be available in
»CL1:Deadlock #12» and »CL1:Eurochart» (C)1997

It seems that the article that was
published in »CL1:Eurochart issue #29»
started up a big fight between »CL1:Shade
of Digital» and »CL1:Michael/Anathema!»
The point about the article was to
show you the weak management of the
team, and the lack of inspiration in
producing a demo...»CL1:Shade of Digital»
was unhappy at the fact that his name
was metioned in the article
highlighting the fact that his
leadership and organising was weak and
poor, and was under the spot light for
incompetence again! 

After having a discussion with »CL1:Shade»
on the phone on the 7/4/1997, I asked
him one simple question about the
article which was featured in issue
#29 of the Eurochart, and issue #11 of
Deadlock saying, give me one section
in that article which he totally
disagreed with!
With all the fuss and comments he had
said, there was not even one
substantial comment which was even
worth mentioning in this article..The
article in Eurochart 29 and Deadlock
11 states the facts, and speaks for it
self really..To go around justifying
that »CL1:Freezers Uk» was a top team is
»CL0:just basically hypocrisy! Like we in
Anathema has said, the spot light is
on yourself and you deserve to be
highlighted for your actions! [I
certainly think your handle should be
changed to Hypocrisy!]
I remember when you was in Maniacs and
Cobra asked you to draw something for
him and it took you a life time to
draw, and the most insulting thing
about it was that there was *No
Communications* between yourself and
Cobra to explain yourself! [Iam not
saying you should justify your actions
all the time, BUT if you take on a
task and decide to do it, then i think
it is in sense for some
communications, even though you
dont/or cant understand the word
communications is!]

[Just incase you forgot what the word
communications means! For simple
reading for you, it means feedback, a
2 way constructive contact or
conversation, a link in contact, or
some sort of a a reply »CL1:Mike/Anathema
97»]

The article in the Eurochart talks
about the communications and the way
you had a simple task to do graphics
for a small cracktro. And as it said
in there, that it was made into a
complete and utter shambles on your
behalf! What strikes me about you, is
that you find time to insult
Devistator's graphics in his cracktro!
[Maybe its just jealous or lust over
his style of work, who knows?] Now
»CL0:when people in Maniacs wanted you
kicked out for laziness and was
speaking behind your back, you're the
first dude to start saying that they
dont know the reason why I could'nt do
the work...Thats why I think its best
if you did explain yourself than
saying nothing then people wouldnt
saying anything behind your
back...Maybe you can get away with it
in teams like: Carnage, Maniacs, S!P,
Freezers and Emotions, But certainly
not with me. You claim that I come to
your house and drink your tea? And
then, behind your back I am acting
too-face towards you? 

»CL4:[Further more, I did not drink your
tea either. I left it on your desk
turning cold and then pissed off
home..So please get your facts right
in the future!» »CL1:-Mike/Anathema 97]»CL0:

Then all I can say is, look in the
mirror at yourself and see who's the
biggest hypocrit of all! People like
»CL1:Cobra» and myself was trying to get
stuff organised and all you was doing
was playing little boys games by
wasting peoples time and being to
nosey and a dim wit all at the same
time! For instance: Emotions: you
started up the group and your a artist
and want me to get Gfx from »CL1:Dark»???
Why?? We ask for a simple logo and you
couldn't even do that!

»CL4:[But again you find time to draw for
other people when it suits your needs
eh? And the most insultive thing about
»CL0:it is that you have disowned your own
group to work for others.. What a
complete Shite..»CL1:Mike/Anathema 97]]»CL0:

The group died within 2 weeks.
»CL1:Surprise Productions»: Again, you was
trusted to start up a »CL1:UK division» by
the overseas guys, and again its your
part to organise and produce stuff,
and what happened..You quit the group
without getting the ball rolling!

»CL1:Gods:» You was in this team for only 2
weeks before qutting..Reason for
leaving. Unknown?? I wouldn't be
surprised if you had disowned the
group just like all the rest of the
so-called teams you were in [What a
Dim stick eh?] 

»CL4:And all it boils down to is that you
found time to work for others..You
dont care about getting your
house/group in order, all you was
interested in doing was trying to make
fame and making yourself a total
jackass on the BBS - »CL1:Mike/Anathema 97]»CL0:

Outspan told me that you said i was
wrong going public about the Freezers
article which was featured in issue 29
of the Eurocharts. Well as what New
Labour has said in its posters around
Britain before the UK general election
(1st May 1997)!

»CL9:         *-ENOUGH IS ENOUGH-*
»CL0:


»CL0:And I think its time to highlight your
incompetence and make people be aware!
You might be able to write articles
nice and neat, but who gives a fuck!
Simple things we ask you for and you
seem to treat British people (i would
say British people as you lick
overseas arses with your work) like
their second class people, you can
maybe get away slagging off
»CL1:Devistator», But certainly not with me
you cant! Your one nit-twit that
people should stand clear from and I
think the less people on the scene
like you the better the UK and the
European scene will be!

And another thing too, Your there
bringing in people like Devoe, Tim,
Devistator, Hollywood into a debate
which don't concern you, And this
topic even dont concern them, and the
fact of the matter is that it's none
of your business and I think you
should stand clear and debate your own
business than getting in others which
dont concern you at all! [Again Poor
Sense really]
Is that the best debate you can come
up with?? If that the case then, I
better remind you about the wedding
incident in which people like Colin
was not pleased at all with your
actions! If you wanna bring up the
past then thats fine by me, but I
suggest you stick to the debate about
Freezers and dont concentrate on
things that don't concern you at
all...So you felt shame on the phone
because I slammed down the UK division
»CL0:of Freezers and your organising of the
team! Big deal I say? And what a bum
you are! Outspan, Wizzball and myself
has asked you for Gfx work in the past
and it shows your not capable of doing
it. But for some bizzare reason when a
overseas group ask you for something
its a case of you jumping on the band
wagon and doing it right away [and its
of poor quality]! Your there talking
about Devistator licking overseas
peoples arses for being "ELITE", and
look at yourself then? You're no
better! [Devistator also told me to
add to this text in here saying
that he doesn't give a shit what Shade
has said about licking overseas arses.
At least I am not begging friendship
on the BBS]
Lets put it this way, I can make you
feel shameful if I had too...But I'll
stop here as you will start to feel
pretty low indeed! If you have
something to say about this article
then say it directly to me on the
phone. You slimeless pratt! This is
what I wanted to say to you on the
phone on the 7/4/97, but I never got a
time to do so as you was doing all the
talking [Lamer]! And another thing,
you wrote an article in Generation mag
slamming down Keneda of Grasshopper
Developments about his code, and then
you have the damn cheak to tell me on
the phone that people in the UK don't
have a sense of humour... What kind of
a joke is that then? [I am turning
like you now. Debating things that
don't concern me at all] Well if
that's the case then, I would say the
»CL0:article about Freezers UK was a
disgrace which appeared in Eurochart
and Deadlock 11 was all a joke really!
[I don't think so]
You like to throw insults to others,
but don't like to take the heat when
it's on your side eh? Jackass! What
right have you got to slam down
Keneda? None, Your lazy and basically
bone idle and don't have no sense
really..You want trouble, Ill give you
one then? (»CL8:That's it.. I'm not
correcting any more spelling errors.
-ed») You might be a talented artist,
BUT you have no Communication sense or
any sense at all when it comes to
debates..Maybe you will get your
school bum chum friends to beat me up
for going public again about your
disgracefull and incompetence
behaviour towards Freezers uk and to
people who you have wrongly slammed
down for no justified reasons [Wow,
Ohh-Er]...To summons you up as a
whole, as a personal bloke to know.
Your a decent enough geezer and i have
no problems there...But as a Scene
contact, your one total Jackass and a
Dum ugly Shit and should now learn a
lesson not to play games with me! You
will of course be hearing more from me
in the future after the Music of
Xenocide on the playstation is
finished!

          »CL4:Michael/Anathema!»

»CL9:SHADE IS A TWO-FACE TOSSER [Part two]»

»CL6:Do you remember Abysm..That artist
»CL6:dude who you basically slammed down
for doing some freezers logos in High
resolution...Well you cant say that
iam biased like you! I said that his
work was really good and a matter of
fact i reply to anyone who writes me
no matter what kind of a standard
their work is! You though
discriminate! Why do you think
»CL5:Made/Scoopex» & »CL6:Gfx Twins» never wrote
you back Eh? You will have to solve
that out for yourself...I have seen
the letters you have written to them
already, And i must say. How dare you
use my name as a front to give
yourself a boost...My advice directly
to you is not to make this happend
again Ok!
I have taken brief notes from the
article in Seenpoint in which you have
written, and again, What a complete
cock head you are...Your living in
cloud coo-coo land again, and i think
you better wake up and stop having
these kind of a illusions around your
skull box [Brain/Head]! So devistator
sent me some graphics eh? And behind
his back i said to you that there was
crap eh? Wrong Again mister! In a
matter of fact --->

1.Devistator did not send me the
  graphics!
2.Your lying again and trying to make
  out i said it. When you said it to
  cover the facts up about his cracktro
  for fairlight was rubbish [Your same
  words]
3.Devistator even didn't know he had
  sent me graphics!
»CL6:4.The intro that me and Devistator
  planned to relased wasn't even
  started!
5.Devistator has not even written to
  me from since Mid Summer 1996!

[Devistator has also backed me on this
strange assumption! And again, it
proves that shade is living in cloud
coo-coo land once again! Where does he
get these assumptions from i dont
know. I think you need some fresh air
or a girlfriend or somethink to clear
your head man!]

Oh dear! A cock up again....I think
you better apologies or retract those
words! Or else Devistator might get
upset and slag you off about your
heart throbing band called Take that!
May i remind you that you came 1st
Place as the Biggest Dick head in the
Uk charts.. But was taken out due to
the full scale protest from yourself!
Who was the dude you claim did it!
Erm, DEVISTATOR! Do you remember when
you went to »CL5:Dark/Dual Crew» shining
house? And you felt like a dog because
Dark never talked with you at all for
the time we was there? [6 hours] As
dark would of said, if he had the
courage enough to say it is that
--Your a Nobody-- Just another looser
looking for friends to get into high
places! Obviously, i was the fool to
make you use my name to contact people
like Gfx Twins, Made and Ninja [Never
again Though]...how dare you say i
ripp modules...Ive been on the Scene
more longer than you, and i have done
»CL6:music for various groups in the past.
So how can you make up such a
slanderous statements like that...No
this is not right and iam gonna make
sure your ways and behaviour are known
to everyone in europe! You have just
crossed the wrong bridge, And now you
gonna feel how annoyed at a arsedicks
like yourself! Your a new comer on the
scene. So why should i give you the
benefit of the doubt? You want ripping
to be a subject, ok then! Lets start
with your logos.. especially when you
got lots of mades, Gfx Twins and many
more famous people work on your Hard
drive. I detect a texture copying
somewhere. But for all those readers
out there you should becarefull of
using such work from shade...Ask many
questions before putting the work in,
if your not justified with the answer
then dont use it.. Hear you are,
trying to be a cheap immutation of
Dark/DCS and cant even produce a
proper Aga Picture yet! This debate
was all about Freezers Uk and its
support for productions and now you
have made it into a freestyle
degrading match..You want a serious
debate about ripping then wait for my
article in the next issue of Deadlock
and Eurocharts!

You should never cross that bridge
with me and if you want a article
slamming match, then lets begain. You
will be reading about yourself in
various magazines from this day
onwards! You have been going around
taking other peoples modules and
»CL6:putting my name in it and making me
out to be the most serious ripper in
life. Do you honesly think i dont know
eh? I went on the Board with Adam the
other day and came across a module in
which i had nothing to do with...My
text in the sample names usually has a
special keyed in mark.. So dont try
that old skool trick on me, buster. In
deadlock we are gonna have a article
alongside with the picture in which we
accused you of texture fixing. So its
not only warm words were gonna have,
were gonna have the facts right there
to back up our warm words! So eat shit
sucker!

Here are some points to bear in that
thick skull box of yours --->

1.Here you are making a cheap
  political point scoring from this
  action, and i will have strong
  evidence about your work soon..Just
  watch this space!
2.And as i have said before, As soon
  as the water gets hot for you, its a
  case of you bailing yourself out and
  claiming your a innocent bloke. Behind
  that light and colourful face of
  yours. Your a Evil and back stabbing
  person!
3.If you have somethink to say. Donot
  bother to go on the BBS spreading
  shit. [As i have been told] Tell me,
  So i can trash it out with you there
  and then. Its people like you that say
  one thing and then do another! 
 
So your saying iam lying eh? And as i
»CL6:said before. All your doing is
bringing other debates that dont
concern you into the spotlight and
basically you dont have foot to stand
on. Ok ill leave you with one
question. Can you tell me why the
cracktro never got released in
Freezers Uk? What a tramp! Michael,
Projex and The Alchemist all had our
saying about hollywood in that article
which was featured in issue 10 of
deadlock and was written by me
[Michael], And Hollywood has had his
say about it in his text that was
released on the digital candy boards.
And as far as iam concerned the case
is now closed between me and him..So
why are you making a fuss about it?
And what are you now gonna do about
it? Send the hit squad to beat me up!
[For fuck sakes. Grow up] And Again it
just justifies my point as i have been
saying in previous paragraphs in this
article! Being nosey and puting your
self into things which has no
relations to you what so ever!
Also that article in the Generation
magazine which claims that you said
that S!P was a part of scoopex was all
true..You did tell people that S!P was
a part of Scoopex. And you told me as
well. Ninja, Antibyte, Christopher,
NHP was not that pleased with this
rumour as well... Your mouth is too
fast and everything you do just causes
problems for all! 
Look out for Deadlock #12 with more
exciting news about shade and scene
lifestyle of texture ripping. Great
fun to read! 
»CL6:Due to the fact i was off the Amiga
scene for 3 months, Sources told me on
the scene that you was writing stuff
about my personal life. You really
dont want to go down that road! It
could get very nasty on your behalf!
Stick to the debate.**Freezers Uk**.
And not make a issue out of
everything, because if i see your next
article making a subject out of me,
then i will be getting personal for
sure.. Mark my words!

   (C) 1997 Anathema

 
Final Words

Please note that Devistator/Absys and
Keneda of GHD has given me permission
to use their names as examples of how
stupid shade is [Many thanx to those
two dudes..Thanx Guys]..And more
venture from other people will be
coming soon! And remember these
words....A tosser is not for christmas
its for life!

If Anyone has a complaint about
Shade/Digital. No matter how small it
is, then contact any of the Anathema
members with details..Look out for
Chip Attack #2 in September 1997, and
Catch 22 intro out now, with texts all
about shade again!

