»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:       Interview with Pirat/PHD
»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL5:CC:»CL4: Hi Pirat! First I would like you
to tell me a bit about yourself, where
you live, family, study, scene? etc. 

»CL1:PR:»CL0:Hi CC!, my real name is "Sascha 
Dages" and I live in Germany/
Karlsruhe. I live at home together 
with my great family. It's really 
funny at home :). My scene-career 
started as musician in the year 1994 
with a old and dead pc-group called 
"The Cross" (hi Raytrayza). After
this nice beginning i created "Phase
Distortion" together with Juice, and
that's it.
Now I'm the organizer (and of course
musician) in PHD. My real job is a 
kind of trader in the sector 
"communication".

»CL5:CC:»CL4: To get to the point, how did you
get the idea to start a "module group"
like Phase Distortion?

»CL1:PR:»CL0: Hmm, I had no experience in the 
scene before we created Phase^D, so it
was a new idea to make a "music crew".
I saw that there are so many musicians
without a demo-group out there, so I
wanted to create a music-only-crew. 
A short while later I noticed that 
there are so many music-groups on pc,
and I believe that we are not the 
first music-group, unfortunately. :)) 
PHD is an older group than Mono, but
Mono were the first to release their
mods in lha archives on Amiga.


»CL5:CC:»CL4: Why does these module groups
release "guest releases" from
eachothers' members? It seems a bit
silly to me, after all it's just a
question of which diz is in the
archive... ;)

»CL1:PR:»CL0: Hehe, no, its only a way to gain
more connections to other music-crews.
The people can see that we are all
friendly, if we releasing mods from 
other groups. ;)  
Its also a chance to get more known.


»CL5:CC:»CL4: Why do the module groups, PHD not
excluded, only release techno modules
of one kind or another? Aren't there
any good non-techno musicians left, or
is there another reason?

       »PIC:BD1»













»CL1:PR:»CL0: I can't find many good non-techno
musicians in scene, so i think yes, 
that's the reason. 
Maybe another reason is that we have
more techno-fans as non-techno-fans.
We never forget our legends like 
Jester, Lizardking, Mr. Man and so
one, though.

»CL5:CC:»CL4: PHD isn't strictly AMIGA but
neverthless has its basis on the AMIGA
scene. Why release pc-xm's onto the
AMIGA scene?

»CL1:PR:»CL0: Hmm, its right that AMIGA is our
homebase, but our future goes more and
more in pc-direction. The reason is, 
that the world of multichannel sounds
better as the tiny 4 channel mods. 
Thats the fault of our old Commodore. 
With an 8 Bit Audio Chip we are badly
punished.
Hmm, OctaMed SS is a good way to 
compose multichannel-stuff on amiga, 
but would you pay for a tracker ca. 
$120?
Commercial Soft will be never a 
standard on amiga. Fastracker and 
Screamtracker on pc are freeware. 
Shame on you Teijo!

»CL5:CC:»CL4: When you release the modules in
such a simple manner, is it also
thought to be a way of gaining more
fame in the scene? After all the
module is the only thing you present,
there is no fancy code nor graphics to
lead the mind away from it...


»CL1:PR:»CL0: Are we famous on the scene?? :)
Anyway, every week, we release 2 
modules, mostly different styles and
author, so we have variety.  
But "pssssst", this idea is our 
secret!
For the moment we don't have any
productions with code or gfx, YES, but
not in future, because in 2-3 weeks
our first real musicdisk will be out. 
And another fine musicdisk is in the
making. 
We have some other small projects, but
some of us are very lazy... :)  
The best example is myself! :) 

»CL5:CC:»CL4: Could you explain to me how you 
get the modules from your guest 
composers. Do you ask them or do they
ask you? 

»CL1:PR:»CL0: I asked them, but there are
also some guys who asked me or Juice.
Most of the people i ask are fucking
friendly, so its easy to organize some
great tunes from the guests. 

»CL5:CC:»CL4: I believe that PHD and Mono are
the leading module groups on the scene
today. How do you feel about the
competition? Hopefully both groups can
exist peacefully together?!

»CL1:PR:»CL0: There is no competition, because
Mono have got their own style, and we
have our own style. I'm in firm 
contact with most of the Mono-members,
and i think we will always have a 
peaceful life together. (Hi h0l)

»CL5:CC:»CL4: There are also some other module
groups who are more specific in the
choice of style (Black Sista etc.).
Do you think that is that the way to
go?

»CL1:PR:»CL0: We have many musicians in the 
Amiga scene, and some of these 
musicians are good, talented and in
no group, because we don't have enough
demo-groups in our small Amiga scene. 
The leading demo-crews are able to 
choose the very best musicians in the 
scene, so there is no room for the 
others. This is one reason, why I
think that "Music-Groups" are 
important.

»CL5:CC:»CL4: Tell me about the members of Phase
Distortion, music styles, etc. etc.
Surely we can expect some new PHD 
goodies soon?!

»CL1:PR:»CL0: Our members, hmm, i can say, that
we have many different styles in our 
group. Such as LINUS, our Funk-Master,
one of the best funk-composers on 
Amiga i think. Then TEIS and 
RAYTRAYZA, our two junglist composers.
I hope for more releases from these 
guys!. Another one is BASS-CADET, his 
tunes sounds really experimental and 
he is very talented. I should not 
forget our USA Team "HILLIE+SKYFUSION"
with their upcoming releases. Our 
quiet "AIRON" is one of the experts
of us, so he is our old iron :). Ehmm, 
our musician called "FBY" is nowhere, 
no releases from him , nothing, but i 
hope he come back from army. Oeh, and
our 2 new musicians called "DEXTER" 
and "RONNY" are new bloood in our 
castle. The Main-Figure is "JUICE", 
our distributor and techno-musician.
We also have some good helpers, but I
think, its not so important to write
something about these nice guys. 
[Although they probably wouldn't mind
-ed.]
Last but not least, my lazy self, my
job is to organize this club of 
brothers.

At the moment our organizing plan is
full of work. The next step is to 
release our first musicdisk called 
"Symbolix" with some music by me. 
After this spreading-time, I will get
time for our new musicdisk called 
"Depth Phase". Of course, our normal
mod-releasing (every week 2 mods) 
will continue.

»CL5:CC:»CL4: Okay, I think that is all for
today... Thank you for your time!

»CL1:PR:»CL0: Thank YOUUUUU!! .. and big kisses
to your sister, if you have one :) [I
haven't -ed].
Some advertising: Join #phd, our
interactive IRC-channel!!
bye Curt Cool!

