»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:          »BIG:A MODULE-SCENE
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL0:If you are on the modem scene, or at
least call a/some boards regularly, 
or just tend to hang around on IRC a
bit, you will have noticed a 
phenomenon, which is, if not quite 
new, then at least far from as old 
as the scene itself. 
Yes, as the more perceptive readers
might have guessed, I'm thinking about
groups like Mono and Phase Distortion
(and quite a few others), which
release a lot of modules (and usually
only the modules, no musicdisks etc.)
onto the unsuspecting scene, archived
with only a file_id.diz and a textfile
or two to explain about the module and
the group.
To put in other words, this is a »CL1:new
scene trend».
I think that at least the more active
sceners & scenesses among you have 
seen these archives, but anyhow, for 
those of you who have not, I can tell
that the modules are usually in some
sort of techno style. eg. trance, goa,
acid, jungle etc. etc., and made by
musicians who, at least when it comes
to Mono, are quite well known in the
scene (names like SuperNao, Vim!,
Yolk, Hollywood, Substance, Mortimer
Twang certainly ring a bell in most 
sceners' heads I think... Or what?).
But these groups does not only release
modules from the musicians from their
      »PIC:Z3»



















own groups, no, some guest releases
are also very normal (»CL1:Azazel» made a
mod. for Mono, and »CL1:Chromag» made one
for Phase Distortion).
But of course the big question is why
they do it, after all you might as
well just spread the module normally
or get it released in some production?
Or are there just too many musicians 
(or too few coders & graphicians) on
the scene to make this happen?
Or is it because that the musicdisk 
as a genre has almost died out these
days? (which is incredibly sad, since
I know that there are many musicians
out there who have some brilliant 
stuff just waiting to be released)
Look in the 2 interviews
with »CL1:Pirat/Phase Distortion» and
»CL1:Hollywood/Mono» to find out!
