[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]How to contribute 
by Browallia/Nukleus
------------------------------

It is not that Versus lacks support, when looking through this. But the road to support is like banging your head on a typewriter where we aim to type 'support please' but have a spacebar in our forehead feeding the empty space on a blank paper.

But seriously, support from 30-40 contributors when performing the graphical AI survey with 11 top graphicians. In Versus, I believe in your story. You are the source of information, but this has led to misunderstandings.

We want to read about others. That's inspiring. A common question I get is, "What should the article be about?"

I want to turn this question around and ask,
"Can you share something that the audience doesn't know?"


ARTICLES
You can send in your articles to me (browallia[vS]nukleus[DOT]nu) or to Versus staff (see credits), for example to puni/Void (punivoid[vS]protonmail[DOT]com) or someone you feel comfy with, like Ghandy (but he may steal the stuff for the sister mag Jurassic Pack, so be careful there if you don't want your pants wet).

GLOBAL NEWS
This service is running 24-7-365... Dont hesitate to write down news and mail 
(www.nukleus.nu/vs)

VOTE
And of course, you can drop a vote (when this feature is open). My message from the birth of Versus has been: vote what you feel like, there are no boundaries, there is no right and wrong, you like the Amiga, and we do not interfere with what you believe in.

ARTIFICAL INTELLIGENCE
Now, a turn over to AI and deep learning. In this issue, we released an article made by ChatGPT in the AI section. We credited this entirely to AI, which compiled it for us. We just filtered out the "bad language" and personal attacks (which ChatGPT 3.5 doesn't like anyhow). So this is a way, in my opinion, where AI can be used. Just like a spell program or whatever, as long as you say how it was done. Then, I don't care in the future if the AI can write more "personally" (which I prefer myself) or whatever to fool us even more. My point is, I will always look up to humans doing scene work. So don't be sloppy here.

TRIVIA FLOTING DEADLINES IN THE DISKMAG SCENE
Estrup, early mained Eurochart was questioned in Upstream #7 how long it takes to do an issue: 

"Around 2 weeks, EXCLUDING the time all the voters spend voting!"

Wonder if I could borrow the magic gloves Estrup has because compilation here takes a bit longer. When we set deadlines, I know (and others dealing with diskmags aswell) that they are floating. Diskmags do not have deadlines unless they want to be released at a party (does it fit in wild compo, and if so, will it not always lose to musicdisks in the same compo anyway?). But in case diskmags are just released, the deadline will be floating. When people ask for a deadline for their submission, I set it strictly but know beforehand it's most likely not going to be met. But we want to have deadlines to work against, both submitter and receiver.


Test to write, it's a piece of art, and maybe you'll discover something about yourself while writing. You are invited, and we want your characters! It should be fun, not a task, so finally, 
just want to say:


Happy writing!
