[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]The Deep Meet / Darkage
[h1]The Making of
by Mod3m/Darkage


One year ago, Darkage came back to the Amiga demo scene with a demo called "Neocolora," which placed second in the Amiga demo competition at Revision 2023. I (Mod3m) hadn't touched AsmOne for more than 20 years, and it took me a few months to remember how registers work, chip and fast RAM, and in general how the Amiga architecture is made. However, after a few months of imprecations shouted from the windows of my little studio, I managed to make it work again, and we produced this new demo. Many people liked it; some people commented on Pouet.net that the demo looks like a 20-year-old demo (which is true! Our techniques stopped when we left the scene 20 years ago!). We realized that we really enjoy being part of the Amiga demo scene again!

What happened next? The result motivated us greatly, so much that both Dip and I started writing new effects for a new demo. Then summer arrived, and you know how hot the weather is in Italy and how lazy we became, so many months passed without any big news from us. Around the new year, we started thinking again about the new demo, and Dip provided many cool new effects while I organized the sources and tried to make cool transitions between them. We asked Facet to draw the graphics, but he got very busy at work, so we asked Critikill to draw some graphics for us because time was running out, and the demo was not ready. Yes, we had less than one week until Revision 2024, and our demo was not ready. Grr! What a stress!

Dip did excellent work, providing cool effects, and I managed to link them together with the great soundtrack Soda7 made. We didn't have a specific design idea, but Critikill sent some graphics with whales and robots and sbam! We had a topic for the demo. Critikill is very fast at providing graphics, but three days before the party, he got sick and couldn't work on the demo anymore. So we asked Steffest to perform a miracle, and yes! He did it. He made all the graphics we needed for the demo in one day!

So, we jumped on a plane and went to Revision! While we thought we could relax, we found out that one bug on real hardware was disturbing the video during the demo. Aaargh! My A1200, which I used to code the demo, was in Italy, and I only had WinUAE with me on my laptop! How could we fix a bug that doesn't appear on emulators, and only sometimes on real Amigas? In the end, we managed to remove a tiny effect that was the source of the problem, assembled a new version, and uploaded it for the compo... and the rest is history.

Mod3m/Darkage
