[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Bitfellas.org - Do we really need so many scene portals?
by Ghandy & Browallia



A little bit of history

Before ALiEN started his forum and portal Bitfellas.org in March 2006, he was quite active in the Total Kaos forum. He liked the open dialogue. He also liked the fact that there were a lot of former users there, until Total Kaos forum (not the bbs/mailbox) suddenly went offline. ALiEN was a member of some productive C64 cracking groups in the Berlin area in the 80s. He told us that internally the Bitfellas system ran as a sandbox for almost exactly 1 year. During this time the code was improved. So this project is now more than 18 years old, which is really quite a long time for a website, congratulations!

Bitfellas.org is based on the e107 content management system (https://e107.org), which is very flexible and easy to extend and change. However, it is built in squares, looks rather static IMHO and contains some kind of scripting language. In the backend it is used for the layout of static articles. Unfortunately e107 is not a WYSIWYG tool like Wordpress for example. This means that it is not possible to design the articles (different fonts, font sizes, headings, right- or left-aligned clipart, etc.) with a click of the mouse. I noticed this when I put some issues of Jurassic Pack online at Bitfellas. It took several hours to layout a single article, and it was annoying to have to adjust commands over and over again. With modern blogging software, this is much quicker.


Many features included

Over the years, ALiEN has been able to motivate many contributors to work on the project. This has resulted in ArtCity, an extensive gallery for graphic artists of all computers and operating systems, regular podcasts with a compilation of scene-related music, and much more. Issue 221 of BitJam, for example, was published in the name of Versus to announce that this chart magazine is still alive. http://www.bitfellas.org/page.php?100 Several graphic artists are busy painting banners for new BitJam remixes to keep things interesting. Various articles, interviews, tutorials and complete issues of several diskmags can be found in the SzeneCity section. The Outreach demo party also has its own section in Bitfellas. Bitjam (the radio, not the podcast) is undoubtedly the centrepiece of this online project. It is a scene-based radio station that plays chiptunes and modules 24/7 every day. Thanks to several m3u files, you can listen to the stream in different qualities, whatever operating system you're using. 

The news are particularly important, as they are automatically displayed on Pouet.net. ALiEN and a few other helping hands receive the news from many retro and scene portals via RSS feeds and then manually select what they want to keep. After reviewing the submissions, which of course also come manually from users, the news goes online here and on Pouet. This is practical because it gives you a wide reach. Almost everyone who is interested in the demoscene will notice it as long as it's visible on Pouet's main page.

But that is by no means all this portal has to offer its visitors. There's so much more to discover!



Do we really need so many scene portals?

Well, I asked myself this question again a few years later when Demozoo went online as an alternative to Pouet. Do we really need to keep reinventing the wheel? Wouldn't it be better to have a single point on the WWW where everyone goes? Well, I have to admit that I now use Demozoo more often than Pouet. Why is that? The embedded YouTube videos have been integrated in a very privacy-friendly way, no data is sent to the Google subsidiary YouTube. But more importantly, the database with all the links is really impressive and helpful. This makes Demozoo an ideal research tool. You really can't say that about any other online project. On the other hand, Demozoo is missing a lot of entries that can only be found in the CSDB (pure C64 database) or at Pouet. That's the downside of decentralised solutions, of course.

Private disputes or personal animosities play a big role why someone opens the same portal for the tenth time. And, of course, why many didn't survive in the long run. To ALiEN's credit, however, he has always actively pursued his project. As a self-employed person with an own company and family, this is not something that can be taken for granted. Of course, news submissions sometimes take a day longer to appear online. But the team of people who publish news should not be that large. It wasn't that big in the beginning, when I was still helping out. And then a personal dispute with another bf team member convinced me to stay out of Bitfellas. It just goes to show that we are all human and have our weaknesses and faults.

There are an unbelievable number of scene radio stations on the net that hardly anyone listens to or needs. Bitfellas is one of them. Picture galleries have also come and gone. There are also many link collections like the Bitfellas YellowPages. What this site lacks is activity. My Christmas greetings from the end of December are still visible in the BitChatbox. And the number of comments in the forum has also dwindled considerably over the years. But what can you do about it? You can't force people to post their own stuff on a portal.



Browallia's thoughts on the case: Much of the team has left the ship, which explains the lack of visitors.

Back in 2018, ALiEN^bf was still active and somehow getting PMs back quickly. It almost felt like a collective collapse of the Bitfellas when Bobic, Vince, CONS and Captain ALiEN himself suddenly left the (already) sinking ship.
This was one of the reasons why we started diskmags.nukleus.nu to release Versus #9. Although ALiEN has always been extremely helpful, it seems that his passion to keep Bitfellas.org afloat wasn't there, or as the friendly message said: "I'm sorry, but we stopped maintaining this area a few years ago. "

This was such a change just 10 years ago (2014) in the most flourishing years of Bitfellas. That golden age had such an inspiring spirit.

Bitfellas consisted of five legs and you can see that there was a master plan behind all of them. First, there was BitJAM, an important central leg with the podcast series and scene radio. Here the portal found great support from >30 sceners like Axel, Chromag, Critikill, dalezy, Dip, Gargaj, H20, Menace, ne7, Scamp, Serpent, Vincenzo, Virgill and xeNusion).

BitJAM was the foundation for a solid second leg - The Scene City, where the potential was in online articles, and the third leg (BitWorld) the BitFellas news, huge DB project with tens of thousands of productions, starting with AMIGA. The Versus staff wonders if this isn't the real inspiration for Menace/Spaceballs to do his Demozoo project, which fits in well with the decline of BitWorld? Cutting the cake of Kestra.

ArtCity is the fourth leg, where logged-in sceners could talk about pictures, innovative indeed, and you have to admit that such groups as demoscene logos or pixel art were not yet born. The next leg wasn't the strongest and also not very successful, the BitFellas demoscene news, luckily any furniture would fit with three legs. Finally, the tabletop, or the community. It's just the members, but without them it will die. Bitfellas didn't die because of the visitors, but because of the crew. But with respect to the crew, we understand how much care such a baby needs, and wonder what the next steps are, or how to wake it up.

We want them to be there and have done several bitJam podcasts with them. But access seems to be difficult, or as Bobic kindly informed us: "I'm sorry to say, but Alien is your man. He's the one with admin rights".

One thing is for sure, Bitfellas is a place that is needed, not only to bring the German scene together, but also as a playful area when discord, chats and other SoMe-places are too serious. The only question is, who will volunteer to give this big platform a submarine massage and will ALiEN give away his baby?



Let's get this straight: The ship bf is not at the bottom of the sea, but it does not have a visible course either.


Ghandy back on the keys with the conclusion. No doubt, on bitfellas.org you will find many interesting areas that will invite you to stay. But overall there is a lack of visitor participation, not to forget, that many former people did somewhen stop to work on this project. The few existing people don't do very much at all it seems.

And apart from some exclusive content, everything that is available here can be found elsewhere on the internet. No doubt ALiEN and his team have put a lot of time and energy into this, but most of it is and will remain duplicate content. Do we need so many places to go on the Internet? No, certainly not. But unfortunately there is no global solution for this problem this either. Unfortunately.

And to reply to the question of Browallia: ALiEN will never give away his baby. Not in 100 years. And if he decides not to fuel the activity, it's alone his project and therefore also his decision. And so the ship bf continues to sail along in the thick fog, with very little wind at all.

