[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Battle online -vS- diskmags
by Zerox/Gods and Browallia/Nukleus


From time to time since Internet, online has been a hot potatoe as competitor to the diskmag scene. Lets find out how Zerox (Z) and myself (B) credit these two platforms, newschool versus oldschool.

Every question will get 1 point from each of us with a short argument. The good old diskmag editor of D.I.S.C can not see my answers so influence bias is zero... Let the fun begin.

(1) You reach a larger target group by publishing online?
(Z) Absolutely. The readership of diskmags, particularly Amiga diskmags, is quite limited. Publishing online has the potential to reach a much larger audience.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  online (without any doubt).
(B) That may be true, but are we sure that clicking articles = reading them? But one thing for sure. Its out there for other non-amigas to read, or the sofa-sceners (myself?) too lazy to read.
(B) I give my point to: online

online vS diskmags: 2-0

(2) Atmosphere better with Diskmags?
(B) yes, here I would say in a setting, readling slowly over THAT cup of coffee is devoted to diskmag people
(B) I give my point to: diskmags
(Z) As an old-school scener and editor since the late 80s, I have always loved diskmags. The combination of stunning graphics, music, and fresh content, delivered through functional code, is unbeatable. I miss the anticipation of getting my hands on my favorite diskmags. Despite the abundance of diskmags in the 90s, some were so captivating that I read them repeatedly.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  diskmags (always when it comes to atmosphere)

online vS diskmags: 2-2

(3) Easier to reply/comment on online articles?
(Z) Yes, for various reasons. Firstly, online magazines allow for immediate comments and feedback, with quick responses from the authors. In contrast, with diskmags, it often took a long time for the next issue to be released, and responses from the editor were not guaranteed. I recall receiving a lot of snail mail (and some emails) when releasing D.I.S.C. back in the day.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  online (certainly).
(B) yes I think so, more intereraction and easier to link to an article. I think as a thread. someone starts a topic and elaborate and justify the answer. This is a great way
(B) I give my point to: online

online vS diskmags: 4-2

(4) Publish online provides it reachable for AI-bots, is that good?
(B) Kind of new phenomena, I would say yes, because we cannot avoid the tools comming, and it will calibrate over time  (be more accurate). Info spread is a bless if made wisely.
(B) I give my point to: online
(Z) I would say both yes and no, depending on the purpose. AI-bots operate autonomously, making decisions and performing tasks based on pre-defined rules and learning algorithms. This can be beneficial for increasing visibility and reach, as well as for data collection and analysis. It makes accessing and leveraging content from various online magazines easier. However, there is a risk of misuse and plagiarism. Nonetheless, I am enthusiastic about AI and the opportunities it presents. If only I had access to this technology when creating D.I.S.C.!
(Z) My point for this question goes to: online

online vS diskmags: 6-2

(5) Quality generally better inside diskmagazines
(Z) It depends. Online platforms offer better tools to enhance the magazine and content in every aspect. However, I believe that sceners (at least in the past) were more invested in the articles and content provided to diskmags compared to contributions to online threads.
(Z) My point for this question goes to: diskmags
(B) Not necessarly, but by broaden the perspective, I think there is a tradition to do some checkups, try to get names correct, try to avoid some mispelled words etc. I also think that the diskmag scene demand some kind of good content compare to online
(B) I give my point to: diskmags

online vS diskmags: 6-4

(6) Navigation can be done easier with online magazines than diskmags?
(B) I think the essential browsing is done with diskmags and thats enough, simplicity and least possible features.
(B) I give my point to: diskmags
(Z) This can go both ways. Online content can sometimes be difficult to navigate and find the latest articles. The same issue can occur with diskmags, especially those with poorly written code. As a diskmag enthusiast, I tend to focus on the great diskmags. For example, compare the online and diskmag versions of Jurassic Pack and decide for yourself which is easier to navigate. Or check out the latest issues of D.I.S.C. ;-)
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  diskmags

online vS diskmags: 6-6

(7) Diskmags can involve more people?
(Z) It could, but not necessarily. In the past, this would have been the case, but now the online community is stronger and involves more people. There are user forums that many sceners use (Pouet, Bitfellas, etc.), and a good online Amiga diskmag would be great. Just consider the positive impact of sites like scenet.de or diskmag.de, which featured online articles and news. If those sites had evolved into pure diskmags, they would likely engage many people.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  online
(B) This again is a tricky question. In the past no one has done a really good try (?) for online magazine. I know Adonis/Mad Elks^Impact talked about Kubica for years and was really eager try something else. Back then, this was really against the stream. So in a retroperspective, I would give the point to diskmags, but by looking forward, I predict online will actually win.
(B) I give my point to: diskmags

online vS diskmags: 7-7

(8) Diskmags are a greater way for identity in the scene community and acceptance?
(B) yes definetly. The spirit is over the diskmag release. I think this is releated with the remember-the-oldskool phenomena. Abstract, but its there.
(B) I give my point to: diskmags
(Z) For me, this is definitely true. It was always exciting to receive the latest diskmags to find out about the latest happenings with sceners, groups, productions, parties, etc., all presented in a great format.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  diskmags

online vS diskmags: 7-9

(9) Online magazines provides a better way to be correctly quoted?
(Z) Given the tools available and the ease of quoting someone online, I agree with this statement. However, many diskmags also provided accurate statements from various sceners. I used numerous quotes for D.I.S.C., and we once had an article composed almost entirely of accurate quotes from various sceners. The challenge with diskmags was that everything had to be done manually.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  online
(B) I think its easier to access the online sources and more people can go in and check that link if needed. In diskmags, this is sadly a hard time consuming procedure.
(B) I give my point to: online

online vS diskmags: 9-9

(10) Diskmags are more respected by others in the scene?
(B) also tricky, but nostalgia wins. And by the sofa sceners this may be opposite :)
(B) I give my point to: diskmags
(Z) I surely hope so and believe so. This was certainly true in the past.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  diskmags

online vS diskmags: 9-11

(11) Fake news most likely to appear in diskmags?
(Z) Even though there were some fake news articles in diskmags in the past (which I found quite amusing and entertaining, as most were created without malicious intent, like the Patsy affair in Zine or the new Andromeda demo in D.I.S.C.), online magazines today seem to contain more fake news despite the ease of fact-checking.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  diskmags
(B) I think that the people most devoted to diskmags try to get it correct because of a non-official codex. But also in diskmags have things not true stated from time to time (and not to forget editors tend to exaggerate their self images). The more private the anecdote is, the more difficult of course to validate this of course.
(B) I give my point to: diskmags

online vS diskmags: 9-13

(12) final spurt: without any explanation, my final point what I prefer goes to diskmags/online articles?
(B) I give my point to: diskmags
(Z) I will always prefer diskmags, but with the small, active Amiga scene, I definitely see the advantages of publishing online Amiga magazines in the future.
(Z) My point for this question goes to:  diskmags

online vS diskmags: 9-15


(Z) Greetings to all old friends.


