[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Black Birdie: The Rise of the Ancient Black Bird
by Wix
--------

It is that time of year again. In a desolate location in the old Vendolean forest an ancient force is slowly slipping through the cracks of reality. The ancient bird of terror is slowly manifesting itself again. We shall gather in clearing to summon the Ancient Bird of Terror and we will do so with offerings of great artistic and technological prowess. Masses will be held, offerings will be made, the Ancient Bird will be pleased. 
Join in the chant

As Birdie progressed from a small party help in the cafeteria at a local gymnasium to a full flanged LAN-Party with 1000+ seats organised with the support of the local commune some of crew felt they were missing not having to adhere to the rules and regulation that comes with youth events of this size.

So Wix, Triple and Concept-P banded together and the idea to organise an off the books demoscene only event was born, and what better name than “Black Birdie”. The first Black Birdie took place at Teknologkåren at Uppsala University. A cosy location with all necessary amenities. But we wanted even more freedom from rules such as noise constraints and schedules for when we could do certain things. We aimed for a private party at a private location. And so we did…

Inspired by the lack of neighbours at Symphony (Polish party, usually held at camp sites or similar before they moved to Eskulap in Poznan) we finally ended in Artees infamous barn just outside Vittinge. This was also the occasion where the original pterodactyl logo that was intended for the first Birdie parties was resurrected (the first real Birdie logo ended up a Gryphon as the graphician did not know what a Pterodactyl was…).

People were told to bring their arctic grade survival gear but no one did. At night the temperature dropped to 5 degrees indoors but the warmth of the computer screens, the ghetto bin and the general data atmosphere kept us alive. Finally we had achieved peek hardcore data! During the following years we made some improvements to the barn and it ended being a warm and friendly no holds barred event. Then family life happened and the Black Birdie went into hibernation.

Fear not. The pandemic brought enough chaos and suffering to rattle the sleeping Bird. Again it started calling its followers. Wix, Triple, Artee, Dunz0r and BKC answered the call. This time people were older and craved comfort, so a new location had to be found.

The following criterias we used when scouting for a new party location. Secluded, sleeping facilities and durability. All of those were met at Norreda Torp. Like the Phoenix the Ancient Black Bird rose from its sleep and is now going on the third iteration at the new location. Platform wise Black Birdie has been dominated by C64 and PC with some occasional entries from other platforms. The glove has been thrown. Will the Amiga rise to challenge? Demo and die,

Wix, Episkopos of the Ancient Bird.