[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]edison reflection (2011 - 2023) R.I.P.
by Radiant and Weyland


"The soul certainly changed a bit after I (Weyland) took over. I very strongly strived towards a Revision-level of ambition…"

PROLOGUE
When I heard that the locomotive of edison a.k.a Weyland is going to stop organizing this party back  in 2023, I realised that this is something for the history book of the scene. It might have been lack of Amiga the first years, but still important. Enjoy the story from the first years and the continuation with this unique insight  in part I and part II.  /Brow


......................PART I (by Radiant)......................

GENESIS
In 2009, me (Radiant/Panda Design), Klegg/Panda Design and
Frost/Panda Design\^Tulou were talking on IRC, and seemed to all agree that there were far too few parties in the Stockholm area. I had already been wanting to organise a party for a few years, so I took it on me to remedy the situation. I recruited Klegg and Frost as co-organisers, and we set out to get organising!

Recognising that we would need help to pull it off, initially we mostly spent time on outreach; setting up a non-profit, scouting for people and venues, and so on. This went on for about two years, without much happening. I think at the time I had a quite naïve idea about my role in the venture — I guess I imagined my main job would be to act as kind of a coordinator and delegator, rather than being the person who would be hands-on doing a lot of the work. By the start of 2011, we had a pretty solid core team in place, and were meeting regularly, and we started working in a more focused manner towards actually organising a party. We were able to locate a suitable venue (Duvslaget in Sollentuna) which we were able to book for a weekend in th e summer, and the party was finally on.

ORGANISING THE FIRST EDISON
Our non-profit was called "Edis" (Evenemangsföreningen Demoscenen i Stockholm), and when one of the co-organisers, Ziphoid/SceneSat\^Razor1911, created an entry in his calendar for "Edis party", his phone autocorrected it to "Edison party". We decided to go with serendipity and use this as the actual name of the party! I spent a weekend designing a logo, creating a website with a registration system, and finally we could make it official. 

Duvslaget was a quite small venue, with space for only 50 visitors, and no sleeping area. Thankfully we had no problems attracting visitors despite this, and we were fully booked (including pre-payments) within a week. The party itself was largely a success, and thanks to Ziphoid we were also visited by Dfox/Mercury, who lent us and helped us run the as-then unreleased PartyMeister 2 system, which would go on to become the IT backbone of all future editions of the party.

MOVING TO EGGEBY GARD
The small venue of Duvslaget was never ideal, and luckily we got wind of this much larger venue on Järvafältet. We got in contact with the owner, and to our amazement, renting it for a weekend would actually end up costing us less than we paid for Duvslaget!

With the venue booked, we could now seat about 150 visitors, meaning we were effectively no longer limited by a visitor cap. Edison 2012 in many ways became the first "real" Edison, and the party would remain at Eggeby Gård until the last edition in 2023.

HANDING OVER
I had not realised how much work went into organising a larger party until 2012, and while I was the main organiser by virtue of kind-of instigating the whole thing, I was in all honesty never very well suited for the job. I continued doing it for a few years out of a sense of duty, aided by in particular Ziphoid who pulled a lot of weight in terms of securing equipment and handling all the tech in general. 

In 2014 Ziphoid needed to step down, and a year later I did my final stint as main organiser, handing over responsibilities to Velo/Approximate and Weyland/Fairlight.

REFLECTIONS
One of the key areas where I feel that Edison mattered is that from its inception, it was the only regular remaining newschool/PC friendly demoparty in Sweden. While we have had a lot of different Swedish parties over the past 15 years, few of them have had any dedicated PC/newschool compos, the Swedish scene being almost completely about retro platforms by now. We were proudly flying the newschool-inclusive banner to the very end, long after I had stopped being directly involved, and for that I am happy — for many people, Edison was the only party where they felt they were still welcome.

Huge thanks to everyone who was involved in organising over the years, but particularly I want to personally thank Klegg, Frost, Ziphoid, Whizzter/Woorlic, lnd, Whisker/Replay and Zonk/Panda Design\^Neanderthal, without whom there would never have been an Edison at all.


......................PART II (by Weyland)......................

EARLY vS LATER EDISON
The largest difference was the stepladder. The projector was duct-taped to a stepladder in front of the screen at the early Edison. That was also my main reason to join the crew to modernize the projector setup with a digital broadcast bus, much to Radiant's chagrin. He wrote test programs on the C64 to test and make sure 288p entries were rendered correctly. They weren't, initially, so that was something that really got me invested in providing the best experience possible despite running everything digitally. 
And also the stepladder projector was running analogue video of course. 

SOUL OF EDISON AND HOW IT CHANGED OVER YEARS
The soul of Edison to me is the Swedish country side and doing everything live, be it analogue or digital. No pre-recordings of any entry unless it's entirely impossible. We pride ourselves on showing entries live whenever possible, especially oldschool entries. And the insanely high quality music entries. One year we had like 64 music entries alone spread across 3-4 compos and could not preselect more than a handful at most. Which wreaked havoc with our timetable forcing people to stay to 4 AM instead of 1 AM.

The soul certainly changed a bit after I (Weyland) took over. I very strongly strived towards a Revision-level of ambition, be it technical, streaming or on-location decorations and amenities. I think this might have been the thing that eventually broke Edison as well, all the requirements I upheld, trying to be almost like a 1000 scener party at a fraction of the budget and crew. 
Using the same party system, having a food truck on location and an organized outdoor area, streaming of everything operated by people, hosting of everything, themes etc. In the end it was a lot, I remember a chat comment very well from our Beach-themed Edison where we used a green screen live and beach chairs, when someone said it was "the most overproduced demoparty of all time". I was 50% proud and 50% terrified.

A FAVORITE EDISON
I loved the 90:ies themed Edison where we had an MTV spoof logo (ETV) that you could just turn around to have an actual MTV logo, I still have it at my home, and crew in space suits posing in front of the venue with an ETV flag just like in that shot from MTV, and space-themed rambling played back in the toilets, and Moh had an actually insane costume and acted the MC or host of the party the entire weekend. It was a lot of make-believe but a lot of on-point decorations and visuals everywhere. I would say it was only beat by the Under the Sea Edison which was a shared experience where everyone got to say something and it was all a sort of community event. We even passed around the microphone to every orga there during opening ceremony, that was very special and probably more akin to any future party I would potentially propose.

CORE-TEAM AND PARTY-PREPERATIONS
The core team shrank each year. I'm sure it was because I was a terrible main orga. The core team the last few years was a handful, 3-6 people, we planned, bargained and budgeted and then we managed a dozen or two on-location volunteers to make everything happen. One of the main reasons I stepped down as a main organizer last year was the fact that this took 4-6 months of my time to plan, even with help, and then at least 1 week of payed leave to set all the tech stuff up before the party. I never intended to be the main organizer, I just wanted to be the tech guy, heading both of these roles probably killed me. It was a lot of fun though, and we got a lot of help from the "old" core team at times.

EDISON 2011-2023 TAKE AWAY POINTS
I hope our visitors remember the vibe and all the amazing prods released at Edison throughout the years. The location with camping was very special and it always felt like a summer vacation once the party started. A hectic one, but still a countryside vacation of sorts.

FINAL WORDS
I want to greet everyone who helped out all these years. The list is over a hundred people strong and one year I actually prepared a list that took forever to read after the prize-giving ceremony. In particular I would like to see more of Radiant dancing, and of course I want to especially thank my friends and family who always supported me and Edison to their fullest of abilities.

EPILOGUE
Homepage edisonparty.com says:
Edison is/was a demoparty in Stockholm, Sweden. The future is unknown at the moment. 
Current homepage (2017-) : edisonparty.com
Old homepage (2011-2017) : http://on.edis.nu/
Dates and themes of Edison:
2011 (8.7-10.7)	
2012 (6.7-8.7)
2013 (28.6-30.6)
2014 (27.6-29.6)
2015 (3.7-5.7) - a Demosene Odyssey
2016 (1.7-3.7)
2017 (30.6-2.7)
2018 (20.7-22.7) - A Medieval Demofeast
2019 (5.7-7.7) - Arx Proelio
2020 (3.7-5.7) - Digital Beach Demoparty
2021 (9.7-11.7) - Data Men Tell Mo Tales
2022 (22.7-24.7) - Welcome to the jungle
2023 (7.7-9.7) - Under The Sea
