[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Greippi's AI demystified
interview by Browallia/Nukleus
-------------------------------

I started to go crazy not to understand the pouet thread where greippi was in the eye of the storm.
After that the making-of-tmb.txt was suprisingly published on Demozoo after I requested that via Ghandy and the questions are not credited to him there but rather as a story instead. This making-of together with pouet thread and I still felt that I dont understand greippi....

Cliff hanger: After the interview below, I understand much more.

Brow:
    Hi there greippi,
    first off, I think people should not do personal attacks so I agree
    with what you wrote in the now gargaj-locked pouet thread "Keep the
    level of conversation civilized". Drunk or not, piss of all people
    bulling someone. Here the questions because some things are very
    diffuse and not clear.

Yes you're very right. We all have opinions, but we should really
stop before going to personal. That's just bad.

    1) The pouet thread after Revision was kind of exploding beginning of
    April 2024 (tread: "AI crap in compo entries?”). You were kind of in
    center of the article (your graphics) but others were replying. After
    reading this thread, I couldnt see that I got wiser of your
    contribution. Why were you not answering the thoughts about the
    visuals better, I mean you were responsibiel for the visuals or?

I've tried to gather a slide show of the intermediate steps of the
TM2 visual novel project. This seems to take little more time and effort
than I thought. Once I get the process ready I can do a youtube release
and send you a link.

For me the whole "AI scandal" started from a simple need to try
out modern technology and see whether I could build up stories with
it. Amiga appeared to be nice way to display these finds. I thought
that people do know that the images are AI-based, so we underestimated
the importance "AI-generated" stamp.

Storyboard is fully hand drawn simply because
I like it that way. I do have Master of Arts level degree in arts and I've
painted/drawn thousands of images by hand on paper/canvas. I know
it requires skill, time and dedication. AI is something totally different
and I believe there is something to explore.

I need to remind that I'm a beginner with AI generated graphics.
My license doesn't support any character consistency. It would have
saved me tens of hours of manual work.

    2) the graphics in Toxic Modulo 2 (TM2) differ alot from your other
    graphics you have released. Isnt this graphics a bit differ from the
    rest you have done, and so to say better quality compared to the past?

These are matter of opinion, I guess. In the making of text I
said that I created a bound to the AI-generated images and I
don't feel like they're "my own art". I've just edited and
unified them.

I have enough skills to improve or modify the "realistic" painting
style. My own estimation how much time I would have to spend for a
single image of TM2 is 2-3 weeks (can't work full time on a hobby
project).

I suppose the process has similarities to photographers who alter their
material on Photoshop (by clearing unwanted parts, cropping, altering colour
balance). Many of the TM2 images come from two or more sources.

    3) How much on a scale (0-100) is AI help with TM2 graphics that you
    created?

I'd estimate 50-95 is AI based. I made a rule that if the photoshopping
a single image takes more than 2 hours, I'd consider that a failure.
There is one major failure which took probably 5-6h. This is the face
image of blue giant robot.

    4) Many graphicians use references when doing graphics, what was your
    sources in TM2 graphics (e.g. Boris Valejo)?

The AI generator (with the cheapest license) appears to imitate this
sort of a fantasy illustrator cliché. Naivism and "realistic" style.
I was a great fan of Larry Elmore and also Boris Valejo (which was
very popular amongst the Amiga demoscene artists in 90's).

    5) Do you have working steps for the graphics in TM2 to show/share?

Yes. I'm still working on this process. I have about 500 files on the
TM2 directory. The reader probably can't guess how much unused material
was also generated.

    6) My tools when doing graphics are brilliance 2.0, and sometimes
    graphx2. I use transparent tool, and flipping color with keys. I dont
    have a refence image when doing graphics. Its in my head. What tool(s)
    do you use apart from gimp?

Brilliance and Personal Paint are my favourite when working on pixel
level (game graphics and such). Gimp was the only tool on my behalf.
Bifat has created his ultra-heavy OCS dynamic hires-interlaced display
mode. He has also a sophisticated tool for dithering and choosing the
most optimal palette. Palette changes on each scanline.

    7) If AI was used in your graphics, were that graphics improved with
    AI more than your abilities to do yourself?

I think many digital artists should quickly study the basic methods
of AI and adopt this tool when needed. We had many conversations about
this subject. The scenario is that big companies and large AI model
can remove digital artists as a career. This is alarming. Digital
artists must adapt and prevent the "prompter-artists" gaining too
much popularity. The real digital artists still have better visual
understanding of things. They still have a little advantage.

    8) How did first TM (release wild compo GERP) differ from TM2?

It's very typical for me to run out of time. TM1 is in overscan
HAM6 interlaced. I used a java based HAM converter (by mrsebe) to
get these PCHG-ham images looked pretty good, but Bifat's display
mode fits better to this purpose.

TM1 is just a lha-archive with iff-files and information text.
There is less images on this "episode" and usually just 2 per page.

    9) What do you think about this AI-generated article I wrote, where I
    honestly credit AI for writing this. Its based on 60 unique sceners
    data collection:
    https://diskmags.nukleus.nu/2024/04/04/
    exploring-diverse-perspectives-on-ai-in-art-a-demoscene-debate/

Without you mentioning this text is AI generated, I would have thought
you have very fluent english writings skills. I suppose AI is everywhere
already... And once it starts to feed less correct data, we're totally
lost! Maybe this could be an idea for a next graphical novel... Nothing
too original, I guess. The "computer mind" gets crazy again.

    10) Final thoughts greippi? something you want to say to AI-lovers
    respective AI-haters?

I have mixed feeling about AI generated content. It's fun because it's
easy and everybody can start prompting. And still, for some odd reason,
you don't feel like the images are your own. They belong to a collective
which doesn't respect copyright laws.

And what kind of mad cow's disease comes up when AI-generated content
is being fed into AI-generator?

What comes to the "death of creativity" ... we need to be honest here.
Creativity has always been quite rare and artists often have their blocks.
What if AI generated content could be used just as an inspiration?

    Thanks for your time, and continue to do what you believe in.
    brow


Thanks. You too. All the best.
Greippi

Ps. Oh yes. I did some an art-generator back in the day. I was then
studying at AKI, in the Netherlands. The project was called "virtual artist".
It is a 3d application, which tries to simulate the work process of a visual
artist. This was programmed in Blitz3D in 2002 and it was my graduation work.
There's a couple of demo videos on Youtube:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mnYDKBTUlAQ
