[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Interview with MDW/Encore

- "I have one game that I can recommend - programming."

May 2024

By Puni/Void

Hi Mariusz,

Thank you for taking the time to do this interview with Versus. :-)

I'm sure the readers are eager to learn more about who is behind the nickname of MDW. Maybe you can provide a short introduction to who you are, where you come from, where you live, your occupation, etc..

My name is Mariusz Wlodarczyk, I was born in Legnica but today I live in Wroclaw (both in Poland). My age is a bit complicated to define. My body was born in 1974. The first part of my brain is much older than 50 years old but the second part is much younger than 50 years old. So my age depends on the brain part I use at the moment. During this interview, I am using the younger part. :)

My family consists of a wife, daughter, son, three cats, and two turtles.

For the last 16 years, I have been working at a large international company as a software engineer (last 12 years as an iOS software developer). Earlier I worked as a programmer of games for Java2ME, Mophun, and Symbian. For 8 years I worked in DTP. My hobbies are programming, AmigaOS, MorphOS, indie games, and the demoscene. I have been programming since 1990 in languages: Atari Basic, Turbo Basic XL, AMOS Pro, Blitz Basic, Java, C, C++, Objective-C, Swift, and Python. For platforms: Atari XL/XE, AmigaOS, MorphOS, iOS, macOS, Mophun, Java2ME, Android, GameBoy Advance (and several others but on a very basic level). Currently, I use C/C++ in hobby projects, Swift at work, and Python for creating helpful small internal tools and plugins.

-

Now, I'm curious about your history with the Amiga. How did it all start? I'd love to hear about the first time you encountered an Amiga and what sparked your interest in it. Any specific games or software that was particularly impressive?

My brother and I used an Atari 65XE with CA-12 (Turbo Rapider 7500) tape recorder and color monitor C-1802 in the years 1990-1994. We wanted to have a floppy disk drive because the tape recorder was very limiting to the computer. Unfortunately, price of the floppy disk drive was very high. The sum of the price of the 8-bit computer and a disk drive was (almost) enough to buy a used Amiga 500. We decided to switch to a 16-bit computer. Amiga was the only choice. I was thinking about the Atari ST/STE but nobody had the computer and the demoscene seemed to be smaller than on the Amiga. I didn't consider buying a PC because in 1994 it was a sad, mute, boring computer with a very primitive OS. I wasn't familiar with Apple computers yet. At this time Amiga was everywhere, and access to Amiga software in Poland was unlimited. ;) In Poland we had several magazines about Amiga, the community was quite big and awesome. The hardware still offered good graphics and sound. I recorded a TV program on VHS where demos and games for the Amiga were presented. I watched the tape hundreds of times. :) I had a friend Jarek who was the main reason why we bought Atari in 1990. In 1993 he switched to an Amiga 500 and showed me: demos, games, software, and OS on the computer. Everything was amazing. Amiga was the only choice at this time. My parents realized our dream in 1994. We bought a used set of Amiga 500 1MB (with switcher chip/fast RAM) and a C-1084S monitor.
My brother had some friends who used Amigas for gaming. On the first day, he borrowed many of the best games for Amiga 500/600. 30 minutes after we got it, he returned home with famous titles such as: Shadow of the Beast, Pinball Dreams, The Settlers, Test Drive, Another World, and Cannon Fodder. Everything looked, worked, and sounded fantastic. However, at the end of the first day, I was tired of the consumption of the amazing content. The Amiga was great but... it was a game console, not a computer which I wanted. I know how it looks today... If I had a floppy disc drive for the Atari 65XE, I would turn on the computer at the moment and back to my projects in TurboBasicXL. :) However, the tape recorder made me not want to do it. 
The situation changed a few days later when I bought and ran: Deluxe Paint, AMOS Pro, Pro Tracker, File Master, HippoPlayer, and Scala, and explored the Workbench discs. I got the first demoscene productions. Now Amiga became the computer I wanted. I was fascinated, the computer seemed to have no limits. 
However, I quickly noticed that an Amiga without a hard drive is as limited as an 8-bit computer without a disk drive. I saw in paper magazines photos of the AmigaOS and programs running on better Amigas. It was another world... HDD was a must-have element. 
We started creating our first Amiga game called “Pechowy Prezent” (“Unlucky Gift"). I couldn't finish creating the game on the Amiga with 1MB RAM because the production requires 1MB but the AMOS Pro environment also needed some RAM. In the 1990s, expanding the A500 in Poland was not easy. There were many extensions but for A1200/4000. I knew my goal was the A1200, so upgrading the A500 is not a future-proof solution. We bought an A1200 (Commodore) which had 2MB RAM as standard, so we managed to finish the game. After the game was released, we changed the Amiga 1200 to a new Escom model and bought a hard drive (WD Caviar 850MB). I wanted more RAM, but I didn't want to just buy FastRAM. I wanted to buy a Blizzard 1230 IV 50MHz with an 8MB SIMM card. The card was too expensive, so we had to postpone the purchase until our second game (“Miasto Smierci” / “City of Death") was released. It was the first comfortable config. I could start using more modern and advanced software (e.g. ArtEffect, ImageFX, PageStream4).

-

Which Amiga computers have you used and owned over the years? What is your current setup like? I know that you are very active on the MorphOS platform. What kind of computer do you use there?

I and my brother always used one Amiga. We prefer to have one better Amiga than two in a lower config. 
Amiga 500 1MB, C-1084S monitor
Amiga 1200 (Commodore, OS 3.0)
Amiga 1200 (Escom, OS 3.1), HDD
In the next years, we added many expansions, accessories to the A1200: Blizzard 1230 IV (68030 50MHz + FPU + 8MB RAM), CD-ROM, digitizer FG-24 plus, Apollo 1240 (68040 40MHz + 16MB RAM). 
Finally, our Amiga Classic was in config: 
A1200, E/Box tower, CD-RW, HDD, 64MB RAM, BlizzardPPC 603e 160MHz + 68060 50MHz, BVision3D, FastATA, Flicker-Fixed, HD floppy, Escom 460 printer, Mroocheck interface, Micronik keyboard, PCMCIA net card, modem 56k, monitors CRT: NEC MultiSync 3D, Siemens Nixdorf 19-inch.
I bought a PPC card with 060 because I didn’t believe that AmigaOS for PPC would be released in the near future. I really wanted to buy a soundcard and VLab Motion. Unfortunately, this would require changing the machine to an Amiga 4000. It was too expensive. I preferred to keep my money for a new Amiga. I didn't know yet what Amiga it would be but I wanted to be ready when it came. :) 
I was waiting for the AmigaONE. Unfortunately, the computer was initially distributed with Linux instead of AmigaOS4/PPC. I was very disappointed and angry. I wanted real AmigaOS for PPC, so I didn't buy the hardware. 
At that time, MorphOS was becoming more and more popular in Poland. I was at an Amiga meeting where several Pegasoses I G3 with MorphOS 1.3 were presented. Some details of the MorphOS were strongly unfinished but the machine worked and MorphOS was like AmigaOS in my dreams. Everything compiled for PPC worked extremely fast, everywhere MUI, integrated 680x0 emulation worked perfectly, and all of the system-friendly software for AmigaOS3 worked better than on any Amiga I’ve ever seen. And the most important detail for me - 3D drivers, Warp3D wrapper, and TinyGL worked really well. So I decided to choose MorphOS. I bought a Pegasos I with G3 600MHz and a Voodoo 3 2000 with 16MB and 512MB RAM. Later I changed the graphics card to Voodoo 4 4500 32MB. After some time I bought Pegasos II G4 1GHz with 1GB RAM and Radeon 9250 128MB. Several years later MorphOS Team started supporting Apple computers with PowerPC and ATI. When MorphOS 3D drivers started supporting Radeons in Apple’s laptops I bought PowerBook G4 1,67GHz, with 128MB VRAM and 1GB RAM. This is my current MorphOS computer. I use it for almost 11 years. During this time I upgraded RAM to 2GB, changed HDD and I had to fix the power adapter.

-

When I first discovered demos and the demoscene it was all very mystical and intriguing. I still remember sending out my first letters with floppy disks to potential contacts. There was no Pouet.net to visit or YouTube to find a wide range of videos.

How did you come in contact with the demoscene, and what was it that inspired you to start making demos? I'd love to hear about your history on the scene.

My friend Jarek showed me demos for Atari XL/XE (e.g. The Top 1, 2, Revenge of Magnus). We bought (yes, bought) demos from a local pirate software distributor. I watched all available demos hundreds of times.
When we bought A500, we knew very well what the demoscene was. It was the main reason for buying Amiga. :) We read all articles about the demoscene, and about demo parties in Polish paper magazines (Amigowiec, Kebab, Commodore&Amiga, Magazyn Amiga, Amiga Computer Studio).

My brother knew a graphic designer from the Nipson group (C64 and later Amiga). He lived near to our house. It turned out that most members of this group live in our city (Legnica). We soon met other Nipson members (Rico, ASL, Mobby, Edge, Polo, Akadem, Jakec, and Dolph). Caro showed them his images created in Deluxe Paint and soon he became a member of the Nipson. That’s when Caro’s images were printed in the Polish paper magazine "Commodore & Amiga”, and we finished creating and publishing our first game for Amiga (Polo of Nipson created music for the game). We met with people from Nipson very often. I have very fond memories of meetings and long (often evening or sometimes night) discussions in ASL, Rico, and Mobby houses. We watched demos, demoscene images, and listening modules, and discussed about Amiga, C64, demoscene, games, and… hating PC. :) It was a really magic time for me, full of passion and great fun.

One day in 1995, we met ASL and he told us they were going to the Intel Outside 2 event in Warsaw. He strongly encouraged us to join the team. At first, we refused, but after thinking about it we changed our mind. It was a very good decision. The event was amazing! The biggest Polish party, over 1000 demosceners, many productions, many famous figures and groups. I will never forget this party. Between 1995 and 2003 we were on about 20 demoparties. I visited only Polish events but my brother was at Mekka Symposium twice.

In the next months, we met more demosceners from our city (e.g.: Spark, Performer, members of Sadist and Phace Truce). We spent a lot of time with this community. This was unbelievable how many demosceners were in Legnica or close to the city. During this time Amiga and demoscene were our whole life. We created the next two games for Amiga (published and available in Poland). Caro created many images and started in gfx-competition on Polish parties. 
AMOS Pro (in which I created games) and later Blitz Basic weren’t suitable for coding demos so I didn't create demoscene productions. In 1999 we bought BlizzardPPC with BVision3D and 64MB RAM. The hardware allowed me to realize my dream - create a real demo. I started learning C and OpenGL. "Magazyn Amiga" (Polish paper magazine) published several StormMESA lessons (OpenGL with 3D acceleration for AmigaOS/PPC/3Dacc). It was very useful. Unfortunately, the publisher stopped publishing "Magazyn Amiga". I contacted the author of the articles (Szczepan Kuzniarz). He sent me two (unpublished) lessons and helped me with some details. Later Performer of Nah-Kolor also helped me learn the basics of OpenGL. The knowledge was enough to continue learning without any external help and create our first demo - “New Age”. It was a simple production but very important for me because it was the realization of my dream. We released the demo at Satellite 2000  in Szczecin/Poland and claimed 2nd in the Amiga demo compo. In the next 4 years, we created demos for AmigaPPC+3Dacc. I switched from StormMESA to MiniGL and learned a lot. I use the knowledge also today. I think I could find some very small part of the code in my current engine for MorphOS. It was a really great time, Amiga was online all the time, IRC, mailing lists, comments, forums, portals... In 2003 we created the last demo for AmigaPPC/3D. I never stopped using and programming on AmigaOS/MorphOS, but not demoscene productions. E.g. we created a game called “Fortis” (MorphOS, iOS, macOS, Windows), currently available only for MorphOS. I back to making demos in 2017. Now I create everything myself (except music), so it's not looking very good. However, it is a really huge pleasure for me. I don't want to change the process. An additional trigger for my demoscene activity is the Decrunch party organized in my city. Each of the MorphOS demos (except Kheshkhash 2.0 which was just a remake) was created since 2017 and released in the wild-compo at the Decrunch party. This is a small Amiga party very close to my house, I am able to get to the party place in 15-20 minutes. It is very comfortable for my old body. :) 

-

I see that you are a member of Encore. Did you start this group yourself back in the day? It would be interesting to hear how the group came to life and about the members.

When we created our first demo (New Age) Caro said - now we are "Encore". I didn't ask why, just approved the proposal and still use this name today.

-

Any plans in Encore for future productions?

I have an idea for a new demo for MorphOS. This would require implementing some elements in my engine. But it would also be very useful for the next game I plan to make, so I have additional motivation. However, in 2024 I stopped all demoscene activities because I wanted to focus on creating my game for MorphOS (and ports for other platforms in the future).

I started creating the “Orbiton” game in 2017. I don’t use any external engine or libraries, I create everything (except music of course) - engine, graphics, models 3D, animations, design, engine, program, tools, and plugins for Blender. The game is my idea, not an inspiration or copy of an existing game. This process takes a lot of time. Additionally, between 2017 and 2024 I created 6 demos for MorphOS. Each demo required freezing work on the game for 2-6 months. The game is seemingly simple, almost all the mechanics already work, but it still requires a lot of work. I really wanted to finish the project.

I would like to point out that the demos and the game are based on the same engine. Many features created in the engine will be useful in future demos. From time to time I update the sources of the last 6 demos with a new version of the engine and sometimes release a new version (on the Aminet and the MorphOS Storage). All the MorphOS demos I have are also in a version for macOS, which is very useful for me, but I have no intention of publishing them.
After the release of the "Orbiton" game, I would like to create another demo for MorphOS because I really love creating these useless productions. :)

Next productions should be more minimalistic, flat, and dynamic, I hope with better design. In the future, I would like to try to implement simple elements of physics. Maq/Floppy with his book, YouTube videos, and demos are a big encouragement and inspiration for me. But that's a distant future.

-

You are active on what many call Amiga NG with a computer running MorphOS. Can you tell us a bit about MorphOS and why you enjoy using it? What are the advantages of classic?

I think almost every computer enthusiast has a favorite platform. My favorite platform is an Amiga without classic hardware (OCS/ECS/AGA and Paula). When I saw an Amiga with a graphics card in the 90s, I knew that this was my Amiga. The first Amiga which was exactly what I needed was an Amiga 1200 with BlizzardPPC, 060, BVision3D, FastATA, and E/Box. Unfortunately in 2003, the hardware became a bit annoying. Dead AmigaOS 3.x for 680x0 also. I was dreaming about new hardware without classic chips and limitations, with a native AmigaOS for the hardware, which is not a set of patches and hacks. I wanted to have new versions of the system with new features, MUI as standard system GUI. Pegasos with MorphOS in 2003 was the realization of this dream. In my opinion, this is a direct continuation of my favorite Amiga. A MorphOS machine is almost exactly what I expect from Amiga. I don't want more modern solutions, don't want an AI in the system, I don't want to talk to my computer. I want AmigaOS-like hardware that is comfortable to use. This is the latest age of computers which I understand and use without any confusion. I like and understand 3D from the age. MorphOS gives me that. There is a serious lack of software for MorphOS, but for AmigaOS3/68k the situation is much worse. Amiga Classic in any configuration (including solutions based on RaspberryPi, and FPGA) doesn't allow me to do what I want.

-

Which tools on MorphOS have you used to create excellent demos such as Morphiller and Morphever?

All demos created after 2016 (Morphoza, Morphlia, Morphobia, Morphever, Morpiller, Kheshkhash 2) and the Orbiton game were created using the same set of hardware and software.

I create my hobby projects on two systems: MorphOS (PPC) and modern macOS (x64 and ARM). On MorphOS, I use Flow Development Studio and GCC (currently in version 10) which are part of the official MorphOS SDK. On macOS, I use the latest Xcode (currently 15.4). Sources are in Git repository so switching between these computers is very comfortable. On MorphOS, I use Git in the command line interface and increasingly on GitDesktop - a very useful frontend (I strongly recommend the tool created by Rafal Zabdyr). Earlier I used MCAmiga as a difftool but now I have a comfortable diff in GitDesktop. Sometimes I used VIM for MorphOS, but now very rarely.
On both machines, I created several useful scripts (shell on macOS and AmigaDOS on MorphOS) which use my small tools created in C and Python (e.g. for preparing resources, localized strings, and templates of game levels). These scripts also use ImageMagick to adapt graphics for each version which is available on MorphOS and macOS. Python 3 for MorphOS doesn’t have all the features and needs an update but is enough for me. 

I use a small tool for creating fonts in my internal format. I created the tool years ago in C but I am going to re-write it in Python or port for macOS too. 

I have my tool (created in C++) for creating and configuring simple particles.

Unfortunately, AmigaOS/MorphOS software for creating graphics is too retro, so almost all graphics I create on macOS (bitmap images in PixelmatorPro, vector images in Affinity Designer). 

I create all models, scenes, and 3D animations in Blender3D on macOS. Blender3D is available for MorphOS but in a very old version, too old. We have no chance for any update or bug fixing, I can’t risk creating projects in this version. All 3D data in demos and games are in my internal file formats based on JSON. I export meshes and scenes to the formats using my plugins. I created Blender plugins and have been developing them for about 16 years. Almost every big update of the Blender requires adaptation of these plugins to new API. Sometimes modifications are really huge and require a lot of work. However, I want to use my own plugins and file formats because it allows me to do everything. I am in control of everything. I like to be lord of everything in my hobby projects. :)

- 

Any thoughts on the main competitors to MorphOS, namely AmigaOS 4 and AROS? What makes you prefer MorphOS to them?

Before 2003 I was waiting for an AmigaPPC with AmigaOS4. Unfortunately, the first AmigaOne was released without AmigaOS4 so I chose Pegasos with MorphOS. In my opinion, MorphOS is closer to the "Amiga of my dreams". The official GUI of MorphOS is MUI which I really like. Ambient is very comfortable and more similar to Opus Magellan than Workbench, so I don't have to use any file managers (I don't like old-style file managers like File Master, Directory Opus 4, Total Commander, and Midnight Commander).

I am a big fan of the split MorphOS system file structure to SYS and MOSSYS. It was a disadvantage 20 years ago, but now it is a huge advantage. It allows for easy and trouble-free updating of MorphOS. This structure allowed for creating spaces for user-files and system-files. In my opinion, this is a must-have feature and should be added in each AmigaOS (3 and 4) and AROS.

MorphOS gives me Wayfarer - a browser with a modern web-engine, and great SDK, Iris - a modern e-mail client with real support of IMAP (very important today), and an address book that supports synchro with iCloud. I have comfortable access to my local network and Synology NAS because MorphOS now has support for SMBv2/V3.

MorphOS gives me 150% of AmigaOS feeling. I have everything that I expected in AmigaOS (in new, clean implementation without many problems of AmigaOS 68k) and much more. Full compatibility with AmigaOS3 was very important for me in 2003. Now I think I might give up that compatibility in exchange for the new features or support of a new hardware.
If MorphOS didn't exist, I would definitely use an Amiga PPC with AmigaOS4. But it exists, is being developed, meets my expectations, and is in a better situation than AmigaOS4, so I don't want to leave MorphOS. AROS in the AmigaNG world is like an experimental branch. :) Is free, open source, and works on popular hardware but... its popularity is very, very low. The AROS community is almost invisible now. I can't say I would use AROS if MorphOS and AmigaOS4 died. I know that MorphOS and AmigaOS4 are not immortal. However, it will not happen during my life. :)

-

I have read about work to port MorphOS to X86. Do you think this will eventually happen? Will this be a chance to increase the user base?

I have always appreciated the solutions that I have and can use today. If MorphOS for AMD64 were released in a final version, I would buy a supported laptop and use MOS on it. However, if this version weren’t released, it wouldn’t be a problem for me. I can use a PowerPC machine because it is enough for my hobby projects. I like this level of retro-computers. :) 

I think MorphOS/AMD64 would increase the size of the community. However, if someone is really interested in running MorphOS, it is possible today. I know many people in the Amiga world who always wait for something. I think they would wait for something else if the MorphOS Team released a version for x86/x64. :) 

-

Is there any demoscene activity on MorphOS these days or is Encore more or less the only active group?

I don't know any group that currently releases any executable productions for MorphOS. The system users have some native demos ported from other systems, several original MorphOS productions, and demos for AmigaOS which can be run on the MorphOS (were created for the operating system and don't require original Amiga Classic hardware). I would like to see new demoscene groups that create something for MorphOS, but I don't think I can expect it. However, that wouldn't be a reason for me to stop creating demos for MorphOS.

-

This is something I have been wondering about for some time. Why are there so few people active in making demoscene productions for the Amiga NG platforms? What are your thoughts on that?

Maybe the reason is that MorphOS/AmigaOS4 for PowerPC is something like middle-level retro. These systems are too modern for real retro fans and too retro for people who prefer modern solutions. The community of high-end Amiga Classic was very small (compared to low-end Amigas). The community of MorphOS, AmigaOS4, and AROS are a continuation of this very small community. Creating software for high-end Amiga Classic, AmigaOS4, and MorphOS is very different from creating for low-end Amiga Classic. Most of the Amiga fans remember very old Amiga in classic configurations and don't accept everything that happened in the Amiga world after 1995. They come back to the Amiga and want to use the configuration they remember. They have no sentiment for solutions created in 2000-2005.

-

If a scener considers trying MorphOS with the thought of perhaps creating something, what are your tips on how to start? Where to go and what hardware to get?

Official MorphOS Software Development Kit contains everything that is necessary for coding in C/C++ for MorphOS. There is Git, quite modern GCC, TinyGL (the final implementation of shaders support is coming), and Reggae (for sound). The SDK contains Flow Development Studio which is not impressive compared to other modern platforms but is the best dev editor created on AmigaOS/MorphOS/AROS ever.

If someone uses a standard C/C++ library, multiplatform code should be compiled without any serious problems. The only problem is creating MorphOS-specific templates. If someone coded for AmigaOS API, this is the same. The compatibility of MorphOS and AmigaOS on a source-level is very high. A programmer can use original Commodore documentation. There are some new features that are good to use but rules (open window/screen, handle events) are exactly the same. If someone doesn't want to create a MorphOS application template, one can prepare everything in e.g. multiplatform SDL2 which is available.

During the making of a production, a developer should remember that this is a computer from 2003-2005 (CPU, GPU, RAM). The final stable version of TinyGL also is like OpenGL API from the age. The current version of TinyGL allows the use of shaders, but a programmer should be careful - shader support still is under construction. 

In my opinion coding for MorphOS is much more comfortable than coding for AmigaOS3 on every config. Here the developer really feels the 20 years of hard work of the MorphOS Team. I still can't believe that the team is still working, updating MorphOS, adding new features, and fixing bugs.

-

We all have our favorites when it comes to demoscene productions. Do you have one or more all-time favorites you like to watch from time to time?

I love a lot of Amiga Classic demos. I often watch (unfortunately usually on YouTube): Nexus 7 by Andromeda, State of the Art by Spaceballs, Technological Death by Mad Elks, Arte by Sanity, Extenstion by Pigmy Projects, Interference by Sanity, Hardwired by Crionics & The Silents, 9 Fingers by Spaceballs. I really like demos/intros from The Black Lotus,  Ghostown, Mawi, Mankind, VenusArt/TotalVision, and Potion.

I also like PC demos and intros (especially from ASD, Farbrausch) and productions for 8-bit machines (especially for Atari XL/XE and C64 but ZX Spectrum and Amstrad sometimes too). 

-

How about games? Do you play games on MorphOS? Do you have any favorites or recommendations?

Maybe it is strange, but I've never used an Amiga for gaming. I know, seen (and owned) most of the famous Amiga Classic games. Sometimes I played a game for 15-30 minutes but no longer. I played games more on Atari XL/XE and my favorite titles are on this platform.

On Amiga Classic I liked many games and I played sometimes: The Settlers, Benefactor, Stunts, Lemmings, Frontier, Test Drive, Vroom, Wipeout 2097, Payback, and Wings.

MorphOS/PPC is for me direct continuation of AmigaPPC/3D so it also is not a game machine for me. I try to run almost every game available for MorphOS because I want to see how it works, and how it looks. However usually just for a moment. I have several games which are waiting for my free time. For example, Wipeout - works very well. I would like to play HomeWorld, Open Transport Tycoon Deluxe, and some classic adventure games on ScummVM. I can’t play FPP/FPS so I am not going to play Quake-like games but I can recommend the MorphOS port of many classic FPP/FPS games from PC and Amiga. I bought the MorphOS version of Tower 57 - this is a really great version that I can recommend. I would like to see the final version of Wings! Remastered Edition for MorphOS. The demo version works and looks very well. Unfortunately, the game probably will not be finished (however I hope will be).
Sometimes while waiting for something (e.g. recompilation whole my engine in GCC10 is a really long process), I run small games like Kulki or TDPowerSwap. 

In the future, I would like to invite each (MorphOS users first) to try to play my game called “Orbiton”. I don't know when I will release the final version of the game. I have been creating the game for almost 7 years but with many long breaks. However, last year I worked on the game (or the engine) almost every day. Unfortunately, I don't see the finish line yet. :) The game is simple but the mechanics and rules are much more advanced and complicated than my previous game for MorphOS called Fortis (available on the Aminet and the MorphOS Storage).

I have one game that I can recommend - programming. The coding process still is the best game for me. This is an unlimited open world with amazing achievements and rules created by a “player”. :)

-

I have to ask about AI. I have seen discussions about the topic on Pouet. It clearly sparks a lot of emotions in people. What are your thoughts on AI and the demoscene?

I am not interested in using AI now. Demoscene and AmigaOS/MorphOS are my passions. I expect AI to help me in my work, but not in my hobby. I want to: create models, paint textures, write code, and create algorithms, and architectures because I like these activities. This is the reason why I don't use any engines or third-party solutions. I know that AI could improve some of the elements I create (especially 2D graphics). Still, I want to do it myself because I'm interested in it.

I wouldn't like to live in a future where everything is created by artificial intelligence at my command. I couldn't find the motivation to do anything.

However, I have nothing against others using AI. I just wish there was always information about it.

-

Thanks again for doing this interview. I know there were a lot of questions to answer and we are very grateful that you took the time to answer them. :-) Before we round off, do you have any last thoughts you'd like to share with the readers of Versus?

Thank you very much for the interview. I am really surprised that someone remembers me and is interested in my activities.

I would like to greet all readers and makers of Versus and all happy users of all branches of the Amiga, especially: MorphOS, and AmigaOS4.

I would like to appeal to all MorphOS/AmigaOS4 users - use your machines, and create something on them. We are not so young - now is the last time to create something. Do not wait for hardware, a system, a software, just use what today is available. We have everything that we need to create something interesting.

-

Ok, thanks again, MDW! Much appreciated! Amiga rulez!

Thank you, Puni! Amiga and Versus rulez!


Helpful links:

Demos for MorphOS by Encore: https://www.morphos-storage.net/?page=Demoscene/ENCORE
MorphOS: https://www.morphos-team.net/
