[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Please skip those demoscene video reports!
by Ghandy and Browallia


On the keys first: Ghandy (grumpy 'n old before he fold /brow comment)

ps is a good mate

Filipe Cruz aka PS of tpolm and at least seven other demoscene groups has been a respected figure in the scene for years. He's a former co-editor of the PC diskmag PAiN and one of the organisers of the Inércia Party in Portugal. Diskmags have a hard time not only on Windows computers, but also inside the current Atari or Amiga scene, for example. About two thirds of the PAiN editors were present at this year's Revision party. But former main editor Unlock has neither the time nor the ambition to publish another issue in 2024. The last issue, number 59, published in January 2008, will definitely mark the end. 

If you still want to be heard, seen or read by others, there are several alternatives. You can participate in forums such as pouet bbs or you create podcasts such as "ZINE: The Radio Show", which are the exception due to the time and effort involved. Axel & Co. are doing a break since October last year, but before that they produced a massive amount of 31 podcast episodes, which is a hell of a lot. Especially when you have to organise the group discussions and edit the recordings afterwards. Apart from that, you could also start your own video channel on YouTube and fill it with topics related to the scene. 


On average, around 600-800 viewers watch the Demoscene reports.

ps has been doing this very actively for the last 8 years, but his channel has been up for a lot longer. https://www.youtube.com/@psenough/videos. While he used to drink beer while watching demos or talk about science fiction books in videos, these days his vlog focuses on a monthly summary called "Demoscene Report".

Yes, it's great to get an overview of the highlights of all the computer scenes. But the main problem is that Filipe is a native member of the Windows scene. You just can't know everything. For example, I have no idea about the Atari, C64 or ZX Spectrum scene. And that's why the monthly review is always very superficial. After the release of Jurassic Pack in February, ps didn't talk about the contents at all. He just assumed that it should contain some interesting interviews and party reviews. Yes, that's true. But, forgive me for saying so, it makes no sense at all if you have no clue what's happening.


The concept is lacking

The crux of the matter is simply the concept. Talking about issue 19 of JP, he admitted that he hadn't even installed any Amiga emulator. Well, how do you describe or judge about something without knowing it? He has never seen more than the screenshot and a few comments on pouet.net. Neither WinUAE nor FS-UAE (two Amiga emulators) should be running on his computer at the moment. Sure, the installation is easy, but the configuration is notoriously difficult because, unlike the C64, there are several Amiga models that are not compatible. One wrong option in the setting in the configuration and each program crashes at once. This is a real hurdle even for nerds. Especially if you didn't grow up with the Amiga hardware yourself. As an outsider, you simply cannot know what needs to be specified in the configuration. It is therefore understandable that no emulator is used. But then you can't say anything about a specific product. And also you should better not trying it.

Compared to the other videos, the "Demoscene Reports" do reach a few more viewers. But sorry, that doesn't make them any more useful! In the past, ps used to make more live videos from parties or in-depth interviews with guests, which were more in the podcast vein. That would be a lot more interesting in terms of content than a huge list of productions that have been released. It would be even better if he concentrated on the scene he really knows the most about. Not that we would deny him his attention, quite the opposite. But then the project would make a lot more sense.


keys over to mr brow

Im not so harsh as Ghandy above (also putting the title of this article that sneaky bastard), simply because a tendency to admire and respect people for what they believe in. Since start of May, psenough is doing this on weekly pace, 4-5 times more every Wednesday. Its ambitious frequence indeed, but I also question why. I also wonder when an AI bot can do such influence job myself, e.g. "give me all likes from the sources, list them and prepare my speech, sort declining after popularity". 
It is simply a scroll of news what I can read more optimized elsewhere, so I agree with Ghandy about concept lack. But for me, I would like to state myself to look elswhere direction and let ps do his thing. Why, because my own ego is not the audience. 

Who is the audience?
Earlier on monthly basis, psenough dominated the news with three out of five news splash drops in pouets main window. Thats too much space in the common area imho. Format of these demoscene vidoe reports are roughly: 30 minutes, first a bit of scrolling around, for overview with an animated background. Then going through some demos (not showing) around top 5 from a demoparty. After that, maybe some graphics shown from photo- oldskool- modern gfx. Then back to pouet and see if any news there in the main area. And then ending up with future parties for upcomming 1-2 months and platforms supported. Thats the format of this.

So, who is watching, who is the audience? Answer is simple. Thats people not knowing the demoscene. I notice that on discord, demo channel, psenough use to get 2-3 likes from his fellows and friends, so that does not mirror a large audience imo, the rest are a bunch of anonomous watchers. But its great, he found his crowd! 


ps - the scene influencer?
Im not ironic with this title. But rather intrested in people's thinking and Life. Is this your Life quest, to produce material based on headlines written before? I think your knowledge is much more than that. If your role, however, is to stay neutral when reporting, then this is the way, but I have a feeling you want to seek consensus with people for oppinions already written? As every influencer out there, the audience are there for three things: first, recognice the person because he/she is getting personal, second: get advices or tips of things we dont know or waken up some kind of demand, and third: we want to see if we are mentioned our self. I think that we are watching your shows to be curious about if we are mention or not in your show (and thats sad, i.e Im a sad soul myself). But as I wrote above, I think the other groupies are the people now knowing the scene, and for them this is amazing!

Get a second person (wingman) to your project, and his nickname should be 'ds', that would make a ps-ds cool pair! but more advices (read feedback) comming up.

Some advices 
Widening perspective - first it would be nice to go outside the main area of sources and find some forum around the globe. There is no info around anything, pure surface scratching. All can be seen in a readme file or a result list or demozoo whatever.Then I think improving the abscence of interaction. Then, make it more personal with interaction, and dig down to something. Tell us why you like (or disklike). For interaction - you may want to open a chat box or irc and look what people write to you. Dont do this as a one man show because its a Then I miss some kind of headliner. If you want to take the coat as scene reporter, please do start with headiners (e.g. "Mega-blast from X-party , 13:37 by FLT is on the right track"). Then you ask them 3 simple questions to dive into what they did (e.g. how long did you work on this? Most diffucult scene to code? any internal conflicts in Fairlight?). You could do a weekly poll on your web site/youtube channel and present the results in your program also. That may put some new dimensions to your show. 
There you go ps, a bit better and more intresting. Hope you see that as constructive tips my side.
But one thing is still important, and this you know already: if you like what you do (and it looks like its not a duty for you to do this for the scene, rather that you enjoy it for you as a person), then continue to have fun. 

brow

ps: ps, if you read this, then I know you sneak into diskmags, which is of course great to spend time instead of scrolling around. Keep up what you believe in a.k.a. your work!
ds
