[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Party rapport Reunion Party 2024
by Smaugur/Nukleus


The party started at 28/6-2024 @ 17:00 we Smaugur^nls and saiibot^nls started to watch the party stream @ a pub in Hornstull/Stockholm/Sweden 21:00 and talking about the coming Saturday day 29/6-2024 over a beer when we should take the train to the Reunion party in Kvidinge/Sweden (Kvidinge is a small place in south of Sweden near the town Helsingborg) on discord I talked with the party organizers, who was curious to know when we were supposed to come to the party, (The train trip was supposed take 6 hours from Stockholm/Sweden to Kvidinge).

After we went home at 22:00 a clock I feel that I needed to check if I had Covid or not because I didn’t feel the taste of the French fries that the pub had, but after a negative result on my Covid home test I feel a relief because now I could go to the Reunion party in Kvidinge instead of isolating myself from others until I get well at home (In Stockholm City).
So, I SMS saiibot my result from the test and went to bed @ 23:30, 28/6-2024.
On the morning my alarm rang at 06:30 or train to Kvidinge should take of @ 08:20 in the morning I packed my laptop and went straight away to new adventures!

To the PAAAARTY!!! AMIGA!!!!

Me saiibot^nls to the fast train from the Stockholm Central station, all right let’s fast forward the tape to one stop when we nearly missed a bus @ one change between train and bus we were on the wrong side of the terminal! And the bus was supposed to leave in just a few minutes! OHH NOOO!!! Well, the story went well in the end! :) And after I have run with huge luggage, (because saiibot had his desktop computer in a big bag), we were on the right track again!

Reunion party here we come, NOTHING can STOP US!!

And after some train ride we were finally in Kvidinge! Then we walked 700 meters in the sun and finally we arrived at the party place! (14:00 on the Saturday). When a familiar man showed up in front of the entrance, it was Blueberry^Loonies and I was Starstruck (but I didn’t tell him that of course) and we saiibot, Bluberry and I took a photo outside.

And after that we needed to take more tables to the Reunion party place, Amiga groups represented were:
PACiF!C, Scoopex, HMF (Hardcore Mofokkahz), Up rough, Istari, Struts ,Tulou, One Desire, TMB, Software of Sweden, Desire, Nectarine, Eternal and Nukleus. We were totally 45 people attending the party some people couldn’t show up, but it was Cousy and nice atmosphere at the party place! 

L O V E L Y! 

Let’s PaaaaaaarTyyy! <3 <3 <3

After about 5 minutes at the partyplace I talked to Photon-Scoopex and he had a good tutorial on how to program Assembler on the Amiga so I shouted to saiiboot:

-Come here! 

And saiiboot started to learn Assembler demo coding from Photon-Scoopex they sat there for several hours, Photon also later helped us with the WinUAE configuration on saiiboots desktop computer he also had the opportunity to borrow a wifi repeater so he could have Internet, after Photon had helped saiiboot for several hours we feel we had to give Photon-Scoopex something for the hard work, so we gave him a burger (180 grams) and a Coca Cola can and he thanked us and was pleased (love how we in NLS bribe, yeee did I say that loud? /Brow comm).

And after getting some help from Blueberry-Loonies with installing Blueberry-Loonies self-coded asmPro program on the Photon-Scoopex wonderful Amiga configuration with WinUAE, saiiboot started to code assembler on WinUAE @ the REUNION party 2024.

Me and saiibot meet a good old Nukleus member Shoe at the Reunion 2024 party, it was a lovely surprise! We talked some and I bought a PBC Amiga 500 card from him called Denise who could fit with a Mini ITX formfactor, really cool with Compact flash possibilities.

I talked some with phreedh-HMF who told me how they come up with the demo "datajävel" (engl: Computer devil), C64 demo on another swedish party called Mysdata (engl: Cousydata) in November 2023 (it come on 7th place at the demo compo @ Mysdata party) he told me he got the name from riots in December 2008 when the police called the demonstrants "apajävel" (engl: ape devil) and it became national news here in Sweden.

He also told me the group HMF is both a C64 group and an Amiga group.

At 20:00 Fluke73 started to make a live performance (and Youtube stream) on his Synth with Retro gaming music and he played Robocop 3 by Jeroen Tell, and Space Harrier by Hiroshi Kawaguchi and many more classical wonderful retro classics!

Later in the evening it started to rain, and the rain continued a bit into the night.

At 22:00 a clock it was finally time for the compo contributions to show up on the screen everyone had a printed out vote sheet with a uuid number and a pen to give a score from 1-10.

Some contributions released on both Commodore 64 and Commodore Amiga - it was wonderful to see the contributions!

-The tape fast forward to the democompo!

On the Amiga demo compo we had deadguy-PACiF!C with his "Equilibrium" (Bootblock 1k intro) 
I would describe it as two dots that invades on the other dots territory and the dot that wins are the one who have taken over the other dots territory

and  Blueberry-Loonies with the release "Flickerfiller" 128 bytes of Flicker with some heartfelt fractal music that runs on Amiga 500 (Only runs on 68000) as the text says on the vote sheet.

I personally liked both the demo/intros the one that takes my heart for a dance was Blueberrys Flickerfiller I simply LOVED it!! I could watch it over and over again! No problem.

But the demo that finally won was, deadguy-PACiF!C with "Equilibrium". well I think that code was COOL too, so I think that the rightful winner have won, the scene way.

Later in the evening deadguy-PACiF!C and wasp-PACiF!C gave me some selfmade Stickers. 
-Very nice!

PACiF!C played some awesome music in the night around 23:00 – 01:00 one of the modules I recognized was from the demo Maximum Overdrive 2 by Rage with the soundtrack (mod) draskal knorropt by Fajser-Rage. 

@ 01:15 me and saiibot wanted to go to bed and sleep so we went to the hostel we checked in to earlier called Villa Signedal Hostel @ Norra kyrkogatan 13.

It was a wonderful place to stay in at a very affordable price, and the Lady that have the Hostel was friendly and welcomed us.

On Sunday morning @ 10:00 a clock we went up and took a coffe and talked with Blueberry^Loonies who stayed there too and Whizzy^Hack n’ Trade (C64 group) and it was still raining outside, Luckily I had my umbrella with me <3, saiibot and I shared it to the train station just some 400 meters away.

On the way back to Stockholm on the fast train there was a guy sitting in front of me that hade long beard and have had an Amiga when he was young, but he had never seen any demos, So I started to introduce him to the Amiga demoscene I first showed him a demo I love on the Amiga 500 called “The Fall” by “The deadliners^Lemon and after that "The desert dream" by Kefrens and later Starstruck by TBL (The black lotus) and he got amazed how they could do all that on the machine and how smooth everything went.

So, the trip back was partly a long demoshow so it went fast.

Back in Stockholm me and saiibot took farwell and I went back home...

Now the BOMB! 

You shouldn’t have been able to see this REUNION 2024 party report and the interview I made with deadguy-PACiF!C who came up with the winning contributor to the demo compo @ Reunion 2024,

Why?!!? 

-You ask me.

Well, when I came home In Stockholm/Sweden and looked again at my test result of the Covid test, I couldn’t first believe my eyes! I had COVID!, it came out that I had missed to wait for 15 minutes for the final result to be revealed on my test stick so I could see it.

So, Now I had to swallow my pride and write about it on scene.se on Discord to prevent that the disease was going to spread outside the party place.


You have reached 
The End of the Reunion 2024 Party rapport 


