[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Revision 2024 - A walk around the party
by Ghandy/Nukleus


Revision 2024 was held 29.3 to 1.4 in E Werk Saarbruecken. Together with hosting remote shows (Satellite), a local feeling to all around the globe. With the fire of Styx, Revision has going on as the locomotive of the multidisciplinary scene. What shape would Revision have without his opinion in the board meetings?


The entrance fee was hot?

Yeah, it was a good feeling, a bit like a trip back in time. Ever since the Symposium Party started in the 90s, I've often spent Easter with the crazies instead of with my family. The good old E-Werk Halle in Saarbrücken greeted me from afar. It makes your heart beat faster.

At the entrance I thought the nice man at the desk had miscounted. I'm used to paying around 65 or 70 euros for a ticket. It was the same amount in 2019, before the coronavirus pandemic. And now it costs a whopping 90 euros, almost a third more. I know that everything has become more expensive in recent years, but such a price increase came as a real surprise to me. I moved back to Düsseldorf at Easter last year and was too exhausted to visit the Revision party. By the way: The new price was already valid in the year 2023. A price hike of 30 euros, what the fuck I'd say.


Full and fuller

By midday on Saturday, all the tables in the hall were occupied, with the exception of the Newcomer Area. The corridors were at least as crowded as they used to be. It wasn't a problem for me as I didn't have a computer with me anyway. Once again, the focus was on socialising and chatting rather than sitting next to a computer or next to a nerd. ;-)

The first person to greet me was the graphician and cder Nodepond from Cologne, we used to work together for the same company years ago. Now we only see each other at scene meetings. Martin aka Nodepond runs a new German-language newsletter that lives up to its name. If you like, you can order it at https://nodepond.beehiiv.com. It's nice.

Unfortunately, Magic from Nah Kolor saw me already from far away. This time there was no way to escape him. I tried to turn away as he approached, but it was already "too late". The usual conversations ensued. Amiga is almost dead, C64 rocks, his group and Vandalism News the most. Blah blah blah. I don't normally behave like this as I'm a friendly guy. But it's a bit like an answering machine, you get the same thing over and over again. And it doesn't matter what you say or how many years have passed.



There were many from all over Europe.

The next day I met Jazz from Haujobb with his 14 year old daughter. She was presenting several graphics in competitions and obviously didn't find the whole thing boring, on the contrary. The pinball machines in the entrance area, right next to the stand of Jens Schönfeld from Individual Computers, appealed to the young girl. Papa Jazz had to dig a few coins out of his trousers to give her a go. Jazz lived in Hong Kong with his familiy for a longer time until the Chinese influence became too much for his taste. He told us that Touchstone from Essence and his wife also needed some time to get used to things when they returned to Germany. Tuchstone used to work for Apple when Jazz did visit him. The customs and traditions are sometimes quite different if you move to another country. Jazz is now making a point of catching up with his old colleagues. After the death of his colleague Wave, everyone has become painfully aware of how quickly a life can come to an end. Arcane, who funnily enough now lives with his family around the corner from me in Germany, was also there.

Dan from Lemon was also present, friendly as ever. Of course we were all curious if he had brought something new from his home country. But unfortunately nothing came out from Lemon. at the Revision. What I didn't know until now was that Dan also programmed a lot of Atari ST demos in the past. A look at the Demozoo database revealed this. Also present was Demozoo contributor and Atari specialist Lotek Style, who didn't want to miss out on the other computer systems' competitions. 

The female graphician Luisa was in visibly good spirits, after she had finished to maintain the graphic compos. At some point and was really pleased that she had been able to complete her studies in the meantime. Curt Cool was also running around. Is that man really getting older? Somehow he still seems to be 20 years young. Hey FBI, NSA and ther secret services! This man must own a secret time machine. I bet he does!

I also got to see -pOWL! from Alcatraz. Fortunately this group is now active again on the Amiga. He and his mates have pooled the money to officially sponsor the Revision Party in 2024! One of them even used money from his house loan, which he didn't need at the time. Oh wow, that's really great.



Collecting votesheets on a party place is a f*cking bad idea!

Right at the entrance I met the famous but friendly graphic artist Klas aka Prowler, who presented and sold all the books of his series "The Masters of Pixel Art". You can read more about them here: https://nicepixel.se. What I could see was of a very high quality. If you want to save some of the best Amiga graphics on paper, you should think about ordering these books. I then ambushed him with a votesheet for Versus. Later and at the next day he was always busy with potential customers or his computer painting new stuff. I didn't want to disturb him. So I've got no votesheet back of course. ;-(

Collecting filled out paper votesheets for Versus was extremely difficult. I was already optimistic and brought 25 printed sheets to the party place, but only Doc K., SelectaNovel and Dirtie from Moods Plateau filled them out. I gave many people a votesheet along with a free pen of my website tarnkappe.info, which they were allowed to keep anyway. But it still didn't help. "Yes, I'll fill it out later" or "Not now, please, I have no time", were the standard replies.

Sadly, I have the impression since a long time, that the days of any charts are over. Tell me, how did the group Static Bytes manage to publish their Eurocharts every few weeks back then? It was an incredible effort. Okay, they were in school and had more free time. But you still have to do it first.



Some people were still missing!

The days flew by. It was nice to be back after the end of the Corona Pandemic. And somehow it seemed as if nothing had changed. 

About three quarters of the guests are always the same anyway, plus a few who turn up unexpectedly or are absent every year. Norby couldn't make it for personal reasons, Critikill was on holiday. Dipswitch, Ozan, StingRay, Virgill and a few other regular visitors were also absent. Well, it's also annoying for the family when the husband or father misses this event each and every year. So it's understandable that some visitors took some time off for the sake of the family.

See you next year? Definitely maybe. I don't know, it was all very well organised - thanks to the orga team for this great event and friendly atmosphere! And the competitions were great, really! But somehow I didn't really get the spark. It's always the same somehow. Well, let's see.

