[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]10 years Deadline party
by v3nom
------------------------

The Deadline demo party takes place every autumn in Berlin. This year is the tenth anniversary. More than 15 competitions take place every year at the ORWOHaus. So far there have been over 880 releases. There is room for more than 200 participants in the hall. Outside you can listen to DJ sets, dance or sit around the campfire. 10 years of the Deadline party: v3nom was questioned what to expect


DEADLINE MORNING LIGHT 10 YEARS AGO?
A few Berlin sceners met at Outline in the Netherlands in 2014 and realised that there were quite a few sceners in Berlin, but no multiplatform demoparty yet. So we decided it was time to change that. By Evoke, 2-3 months later, we had put together a team and started looking for locations. A lot of people didn't like the concept of a "demoparty" and the fact that people would be there non-stop/stay overnight and bring their stuff.

Luckily, we eventually got in touch with ORWOHaus, who thought we were great and actively supported us from the start. After the first party was well received, we just kept going :)


ANNIVERSARY SURPRISES?
We are preparing a best-of demo show, we already have a lot planned in terms of decoration, and of course some great trophies again, as well as some surprise competitions on site and goodies that we don't want to reveal yet ;)


ORIGIN OF ORGAZ SCENE PLATFORM AND DIFFERENCES TO EVOKE AND NORDLICHT ETC?
I would say it's a good mix across all sub-scenes, both PC and old school.
  
Every party has its own special atmosphere. Of course, I myself only have the organiser's perspective. I think the very industrial location in the ORWOHaus contributes a lot to the atmosphere and I hope that the visitors notice the attention to detail and the motivation of all the organisers to offer the best party. :)


ARE SOME BERLINERS STILL STAYING AWAY FROM DEADLINE?
I think that's a rumour that persists. On the contrary, there are many "old legends", for example, who only turn up at the deadline. Through our co-operation with the C-Base and the Codingschule 42 Berlin, we always try to bring a lot of "fresh blood" into the scene. Everyone is welcome. 

Bring your creativity, have fun and celebrate with us!

- - -

This text was translated and moderated through ghandy