[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Demos on AmigaOS 4 - An Overview
By Puni/Void (punivoid@protonmail.com)

Introduction

MorphOS, AROS, and AmigaOS 4, are all of them examples of what is commonly referred to as next-generation Amiga platforms. We can safely say that none of these have been particularly embraced by demosceners at large. Still, there have been some groups and individuals that have created productions for them. In this issue of Versus, for example, we have an interview with an active programmer on MorphOS, MDW, who is a member of Encore, and they have released several great demos over the years. This very issue of Versus has its own AmigaOS 4 version, which some of you may now be reading on your Sam460, Pegasos 2, or possibly X5000.

While we focused on MorphOS in our conversation with MDW, we are now going to switch our focus over to the AmigaOS 4 platform. What is the current state of this platform in general and what does it have to offer when it comes to demos?

The AmigaOS 4 Platform in 2024

For those unfamiliar with the OS, it is mainly based on the AmigaOS 3.1 source code from Commodore and partly on version 3.9 by Haage & Partner. It runs on specially tailored PowerPC systems. The developer pre-release came in April 2004, and the first proper and full version for end-users was on December 24th, 2006. The most recent version is AmigaOS 4 Final Edition Update 2 Hot Fix from January 12th, 2021. It was and still is being developed by Hyperion Entertainment.

Believe it or not, AmigaOS 4 has an active community these days. The main forum for discussion is Amigans.net. There you will find developers, beta testers, end-users, and others who are keen on keeping up with news and releases. Connected to Amigans.net is the Amigans Discord channel. If you need help in any way with your hardware or software, this is the place to get it. It also serves the purpose of general chat about games, programs, projects, and so forth. There are also blogs, games competitions, and various websites covering the platform, such as the AmigaOS 4 Monthly Roundup. That is a news report I publish every month containing almost everything that has happened in the community since last time. If you are interested in reading it, you can find it on Old School Game Blog.

That said, official AmigaOS 4 development and releases from Hyperion Entertainment are unfortunately far between. These days, A-EON Technology with Trevor Dickinson and Matthew Leaman from AmigaKit, are the ones keeping progress going by providing updated and enhanced graphics card drivers for RadeonHD cards for example, as well as the Enhancer software package. Enhancer contains a wide range of utilities and updates. On the hardware front, A-EON Technology released the A1222+, a new AmigaOS 4 compatible computer, a few months ago. Although quiet when it comes to the OS itself, Hyperion Entertainment has in co-operation with TheMagicSN released a new big box version of Heretic II with many updates and fixes, as well as a new port of Quake II available as a download from Alinea Computer in Germany.

Currently available is the following hardware:

Sam460LE from ACube Systems
A1222+ from A-EON Technology
AmigaOne X5040 from A-EON Technology

These can be bought from Amiga retailers such as AAA Technology in Luxembourg, Amedia Computer in France, and GGS Data in Sweden.

As you can see from the above, the AmigaOS 4 platform is alive in general. But how about the demoscene?

The Demoscene on AmigaOS 4

OS4Depot is the main website for downloading AmigaOS 4 software. It is similar to Aminet for Classic Amiga's. Here you will find an area dedicated to demos. This section contains 203 archives as I write this (May 2024). Keep in mind that not all are demos per se, but can be single effects shown in a window on Workbench to display examples from OpenGL. Still, there are quite a few proper demos to be found.

Ports

Several demos are ports from other platforms. Examples are Dose 2 by Mfx from Assembly 2001 (SDL) and Association by Cybernetic Genetics (Linux), as well as four demos from Traction that are available for many different platforms. The group Fit (initially known as Future Image Team) must not be forgotten, as several of their releases can be run on AmigaOS 4. The winner of the Assembly Combined 4 KB competition in 2003, Yellow Rose of Texas is one, and Hex Pistols from Motorola Inside 2005 is another. At present, there are 12 Fit productions on OS4Depot.

Ports are good and all, but what about native AmigaOS 4 demos or demos that runs on Classic Amiga, but which has AmigaOS 4 support as well?

Let us have a closer look at this.

Supported and Native Demos

First up is the Finland-based demo group Dekadence. They won the old-school demo competition at Assembly 2011 with Chaotic, a dark and metal-based presentation. This one is available for download at OS4Depot and the readme states that both AmigaOS 4 and MorphOS are supported. The same goes for Swansong, a demo lighter in spirit than the previous one, which ranked 4th in the Amiga demo competition at Revision 2011. That these run on the other platforms is thanks to the coder, Britelite. Even though not created with Amiga NG in mind, they run nicely on AmigaOS 4 and MorphOS is a big plus. Here it is worth mentioning that Britelite is also the coder behind Metropolice, a demo that received 2nd place at Breakpoint 2010 and released by the groups Ghostown and RNO. You can enjoy this one on an AmigaOS 4 system.

Second, we have Elude, a mostly Polish group with well-known sceners such as Kiero, Ubik, and Chaser. Here two demos run on AmigaOS 4, but the platform is not officially supported. The uploads to OS4Depot were done by Angel of Candle and Void and contain a "Start OS4" script. Kiero does comment on Pouet.net that "you just have to add some magic switches to make it use cybergraphics and ahi. iirc -cgx and -ahi should be enough. it's same with previous productions (...)". Due to this, two very good demos are available, Dust (1st at Riverwash 2010) and Shake of the Dust (2nd at Revision 2011).

Third, it is time we have a look at Universe, a French demo group that currently consists of three members, Crisot, Middle, and Molotov. They have released many native AmigaOS 4 demos and are probably the group on the Scene that has focused the most on the platform. The first AmigaOS 4 demo ever released was called #Zero: First and was made by Universe. It won the Combined Demo competition at Slash Party in August 2004, nearly 20 years ago. How time flies! An updated version (2017) of this demo is available on OS4Depot. Other notable releases from Universe are #Two: Kitch and #Three: The Trip. If you have an AmigaOS 4 system, I highly recommend that you check these ones out if you haven't already. Hopefully, we'll see more from Universe in the future.

Diskmags and Music-Disks

The Scene is not only about demos. There are quite a few other genres to enjoy too, like a nice diskmag or an enjoyable music-disk. As you know by reading Versus, Nukleus, and Void have been actively releasing several issues of this magazine for AmigaOS 4 in the past, all native. You'll also find Eurochart 48 by IRIS, several issues of Hugi, and two issues of The Vague, but these are ports mostly (if not all) brought over by the developer Kas1e. On the music front, Void has been very active over the years releasing three issues of Feedback and one of Absolute Dølle. The most recent issue of Feedback came out in 2023. You'll also find many EPs from Up Rough, Trilobyte 12 by Nuance, and Planet Hively by IRIS and Up Rough. Last but not least, the developer LiveForIt ported Cheap Disk by Analog to the platform in 2022.

The Current State

In this text, we've seen that the demoscene has made an impact in the world of AmigaOS 4. Albeit few releases compared to Classic Amiga, Atari ST, and PC, there are quite a few interesting productions to enjoy.

The activity is and has been low during the almost 20 years the platform has existed. At the moment, there is not much happening other than a sporadic release here and there, like this issue of Versus. Back when AmigaOS 4 first started getting traction with the AmigaOne computers, I believe some had hoped that it would kindle some interest in the demo community, but it never happened.

This presents a great opportunity though, because if you create a demo natively for AmigaOS 4 (or MorphOS and AROS) in 2024, you will get noticed for sure. Most users on such a platform will run your demo and talk about it, possibly showing it at events, and of course on YouTube. In this way, maybe someone out there will grab the chance to get a lot of attention. ;-) Time will show what happens.

Thanks for reading! :-)