[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]PT-Weekender event #8 - "Atlantis calling" - event report
by tecon/pjz^dsr





In the abyss of amiga oddities, a team of djs unocvers the lost club experience.

It had been passed off as a fairy tale. Too fantastical, sensational, contradicting the assumptions of learned scholars. You'd be a fool to believe such nonsense! However, a new tool dubbed PT-1210 turned the tables on that.


INTRO

This edition of the PT-Weekender paid homage to that software, it having been released to the public ten years ago at the Revision party in 2014 - on the very same date. Don't know what it does? In short, it's a dj friendly mod player for any Amiga model. Just what the kids want! Set up two Amigas with a mixer and start decoding those musical imprints from the mythical age when bedroom produced lo-res audio vibrated thru our ears. Apply new flavours from amiga composers of today and launch your own expedition into the fabled four channels of Paula mystique.

A growing number of believers in these ancient powers have since indulged in the possibilities offered by PT-1210, leading to such crazy happenings like the one we'll look at here. Hence having the celebration was a timely concideration.


SPECIFICS

The main event was held on the 20th of April, while a customary "pre-kender" warm-up session took place the evening prior. 
Both broadcasted on a designated Twitch channel, and hosted by XSM. A teezer and a trailer video with the Atlantis theme embedded was published a month earlier to draw attention.

Eleven DJs participated, delivering well over 10 hours of pure amiga djing along with portions of soothing / experimental / joyous visual presentations to accompany the musical output. The whole bag of produce weighed in at about 15 hours worth of content.


THE PRODUCERS

I mentioned XSM. What's an XSM? Fair question. Is it artificial intelligence? A fusebox? A mere human being? Let's be fair and settle for all of the above in the shape of a pigeon! As the balls and the brains behind PT-Weekender, Xtra Spicey Mikey have spent a huge amount of time devoted to his craft and in doing so he spearheads now a uniquely interesting showcase, I'd say. Well worth a toast!

It appears he can also rely on a vibrant fellowship when setting out to create these productions. Fundamentally, Amiga Junglism (AJ) and Si Goes Retro (SGR) - co-initiators and mainstays on the weekenders. Nicci Dee, FutureGirl and Paula Haunt helped with additional stuff this time, like gfx, anims and soundtracks. Soda7's guitar track from the Revision compo also appeared a couple times, during coffee breaks. Other contributors include the djs, composers, moderators, groupies, all putting together a pretty seamless, continuous stream of entertainment. No minor feat, so they too shall have a toast. Skål!


THE EVENT

Earlier I alluded to this being an audiovisual experience. During and betwixt performances we are treated with various eyecandy, gags and skits. The diver lady in her 'submersobol' [sic] animation, in particular. I reckon she would have done a good job promoting the event if submitted to a preceding wild compo somewhere. A tip for future renditions, perhaps?

Something new this time were the intermission quiz and a fancy outtro to leave us with a smile. In deed the fun-loving attitude is being underscored every time, and even more so now. Not to forget that musicwise, presenting new, unreleased tracks is and always have been a fundamental part of the Weekender mission. We are spoiled yet again with originals, remixes, "retracks" and whatnot, sprinkled throughout the event.


PERFORMANCES

On friday DJ Nicci Dee was kicking it off with a nice selection of house grooves, perfect for starters. Mikey followed suit doing a trademark conceptual opus - nifty mod creations to jam with plus some remix artistery, dubby and lush as you like. In closing, AJ put on a jungle mix with tip top flow, mellowing out a bit towards the end. Safe to say the "pre-kender" apéritif had all the promise of a great meal to come.

Out first on Saturday was this young looking lad Snakebyte64. A debut kid on the weekender tour. Came bringing a couple of homebrew mods and did not fail to deliver a neat jungle set that served as a good wake up call. Then Teo, a once young looking lad himself, came bringing even more homebrew and started mixing his picks of trance and minimal techno. And he knows how to pick'em. Following up on that note was Xcopy who kept it pumping at about the same pace with a tight knit selection of techno and acid tracks, draped in red light and donning a lovely little personalized ascii (by Ne7).

After the intermission, Tytus turned up the heat with fast beats and rowdy basslines, d'n'b goodies of past and present. Made time go so fast it almost felt like a speed run. Continuing in that territory somewhat, enter DJ Nest with his nice sci-fi mixer and.. the amigas turned inward? huuuh? If not as practical (warped key-control) it does look kind of handsome. In fact, let's reward this bold move with the Dandy Award! We got served a big jungle selection, one he poured a good amount of reggae flavour into. And just as last time, launching a full screen attack of superimposed video snippets to go with the sound.

Technically not a debut kid as he featured in an "in-between-weekenders-weekender" (the Nutcracker Madness xmas event), DJ Formula pops up - with an Amiga 3000 no less! And joining Teo in the CRT users club. Played earlier styled techno along with some newer rave stuff. Following that we saw H0ffman return to the franchise, dropping a solid performance in familiar style, mixing in some fresh baked dubplates he somehow managed to squeeze out in time for his performance. The busy bee stops for nothing!

Penultimate set now, where Nicci delivered a properly submerged, audiovisual sensation. Deep, dark. Soothing, haunting. Blue and mesmerizing. For this ambient style showcase, simply turn off the lights and press F11 before you kick back and enjoy! The most work was not in the visual aspect of the presentation, she told me, but in the track selection. Earning some bonus points for that attitude, and seeing how much the chatbox loved this performance, I think she earned the People's choice Award! Zehr gut.

At last, for the final act, the anticipated back-to-back appearance with not two, but a 3-man tag team: SGR, XSM and AJ. Serving up a two hour live set from Mikey's rave shed, filled to the brim with club lights and party smoke. And a bunch of amigas! The ordinateurs mind you, no actual femmes fatales, sorry. But don't be sad, we still get to marvel at SGRs fabulous hairgrowth. A small technical issue at the beginning added to the live feel - the one camera going out was more of a nuissance there and then, I suspect, rather than spoiling the pleasure. It nevertheless turned out to be a wholesome junglistic affair. Watching the conspirators spin their dubplates in that setting, taking turns, employ the NASP (look it up on Aminet), interacting with the chat, having a jolly good time, warmed my heart.


ENDING

And after all that hokey pokey, we cut to the aforementioned outtro which seals the deal.

Now apparently more sequels are planned, and going by historical records the next one will materialize in autumn. I asked Mikey about it and he confirmed: "There's to be another one in October this year". I bid you keep an eye out to spot the exact date - and come join the amiga club myth conspiracy!

Feel free to visit amigadj.com, my little PT-1210 tribute hobby project, for watching these + other archived mixes. Essential links for further exploration also awaits you there. The extra material with the diver lady, intermission quiz and so forth, is available on XSM's youtube channel.
