[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Purple
[h1]an e-love story novel 
by Browallia/Nukleus



PURPLE [p3:.pl]
pl. n/a
code values: RGB: #(128,0,128); hexadecimal: #$(80,00,80); binary: #%(10000000,0,10000000) 
Synonyms: n/a

Also see: Byte, Word , Longword (as nicknames), not to be confused with the addresses in memory on CPU bus of 8-, 16- and 32 bits respectively.

In the scene, purple is dedicated to the symbiotic love couple. Purple’s exact definition is the raw mix explained with red, green blue (RGB) as (8,0,0) AND (0,0,8) = (8,0,8). The Purple origin refers to the product of two Amiga sceners, Byte and Longword. Their relationship started around 1993.

Besides, purple outside the demoscene is also a color by mixing red and blue with its variants such as red purple (#$953553), bright purple (#$BF40BF) and dark pink (#$AA336A).

                Ref: Killer/AMIGA revolution, "Art of Scene", 2nd edition 1993



PROLOGUE
There are girls in the scene, and then there was this girl. 
Somewhere in the transition zone, when people got tired of downloading half good quality of Baywatch babes such as Erica Elinakii, Cindy Crawlford or any random hottie.  In a time when BBS:es started to lose to the internet amoeba, LaMer was born. Not entirely born (she was adult), but her footprint in the scene was introduced, putting fantasies back in the soil, and let them spire to cloud flowers, with dreams of her. LaMer. 


BACKGROUND
There is a devoted pleasure, in using a reference to Art of Scene (A.o.S.), 2d ed. from 1993 when describing Purple’s effect in demo scene. The story was between 1992 to 1995, four years, so I can only retell parts of this. Some sources are tagwalls from the past, others notes, graffiti, diskmag articles (for example CnS, or Amiga revolution) or anonymous letters with sources I cannot reveal, nor know myself. By adding flavour to A.o.S. rather dry definition of LaMer, let me flesh it up, providing the characters behind.  The level of detail from the sex scenes, were actually floppies sent over to me. To be honest, the source of these is not for sure. But what seem to be random notes, were in fact structured as episode 1-6, hence the format of this retold story.

Nude pictures, erotic files, p*rno or pr0n have always been an outsider of parties, and still, fully integrated in the playground area. You want to watch, participate, and same time, your asm-code is waiting for another compilation. Some people mean, its forbidden to amuse yourself at demo-events, there are deadlines for compos you don’t want to miss. I am 21 years old, full of ideas but without structure. But tell that to the dark haired well shaped woman waving to you, inviting you for a closer look maybe? Giggling when you observe her body, where your hands just don’t want to be still in your pockets but grab her from behind. Her brown eyes and long whimpers gave her that kind of riddle look associated with a foreign faith. Strawberry-shaped mouth with space for all between slide and friction. Shortly, anything you wish for – if you allow yourself of course. Hair in a dark long ponytail, sometimes red intense. Girls at copyparty came in without entrance fee. And she took advantage of this from scratch. She had a dark long coat, and a black tie like a woman portrait of David Bowie. Gender-free, still female. She made a deal from scratch with party crew at every party to pay her for showing up. She wasn’t a slut, far from it. It was her counterpart who was left unguard (ruined his pants?) in the end, not her. She just opened the door, while he unzipped. Fireflies were not born, they were created. And they rubbed your mind and all attached to it into craziness. Maybe. Except for Bastian alias Blue. It was clear, she wanted his injections - All. of. it. Inside. And by the time you were looking for the forbidden fruit in Eden’s garden, she had it multiple times already. Twisted her legs around Blue and squeezed out with same finesse a freeze-dryer remove liquids prior dry sample weight. I assume. Or at least, this is what I imagine happen at the beginning. A crash-course in love. The experienced woman from demo scene heaven, meets the virgin boy. They didn’t make music, in the end of this story they compiled art.

Bastian (ex-Blue, handle: Byte) and Longword (ex-LaMer, handle: Longword), Both changed to their current nicknames around 1992 (CnS #3, 1993). Hand of pants, ehrm heart:

Bastian and LaMer were exposed to be the most romantic scene couple, without doubts.


EPISODE 1 (of 6)
All she did was leaving a blue trace, but herself, could be described as red.

LaMer was aware of her well-shaped body, long red hair, and virgin-like breasts, caught men (women?) off guard. Not necessarily tight clothes. Contrary, loose for you to image how to make space for your hands beneath. A thread of possession wanted to conquer her just there, without consequences of overshaded lust in mind. When she posted a picture of herself, to him on nemesis hQ, with a tagwall note that she was avail for his hands. Bastian downloaded the picture before the image was deleted by the sysop. And after that episode, he acknowledged the influence she had on him, with red pixels always seen in a corner of his artwork. First time it occurred was in February 1992 (Dreamia copyparty, picture ‘screwed love’ by Blue).

So, LaMer’s signum was red, Bastian’s nickname was blue. She was going to change nickname to Longword at the same time Bastian took his nickname Byte (coincidence or a bidirectional relationship?). His hair was blue. Her hair red. She worked as radio technician (at least her profile provided that info from nemesis hQ), he supported customers within logistics. She liked it in the mouth her profile further revealed. But not sure if that was only a play with fantasy.
However, more than rumours, was that she was constantly up to things. She was always on the run, as the lyrics explained from the hit song from Ten Sharp. Bastian met her there. First thing she said was: 

- I have my bag full of floppies, do you want a sneak peek?
From scratch it was uncomplicated. She directed that easy flow. He said yes, followed her to lady’s rest room and when he grabbed out some floppies, her underwear was kind of there as well. She didn’t care about the underwear, nor that he grabbed them, or that they were not exactly dry. What she cared of, was to observe his reaction. And the more he let his trousers tell his state, the more knobs she opened from her blouse.

This story was written down on one floppy sent to me (one from her bag back in 1992?), and it also mentioned that they got interrupted there in the lady’s rest room.
Anyway, the episodes they met, could be counted to six. At least the official ones that happened during parties, due submitting entries, or just attending a party). LaMer was a member in nemesis, the group where you had to be a woman to qualify. But her entrance and exit in the group (still a member of nemesis?) was diffuse.

After that first meeting on the Dreamia copy party and back to his house in Coburg, Bavaria, southern Germany. Here, Bastian detected the red traces on his keyboard. And we know this, because he wrote about that, like someone hacked his computer or at least penetrated it’s surface. This announcement came out on different irc-channels and I assume it was later he realized that LaMer was the one leaving this trace. The red colour on the keys (virgin’s colour, or sign of love?), was indeed spelled “FCK ME” with the enter-key dark painted to emphasise this action to enrole. At the time Bastian realized this message himself, he removed the picture and his announcement.

But he came back on irc some later announcing that now all was washed away, but that someone had coloured the key ‘B’ (for Bastian, Blue?). We never know. I could just imagine that both LaMer and Blue made contact at this point, emptying whatever was in his nerdy mind and filled her multiple times. After that no more irc-shouts were made. 
FCK ME, echoed in his head. She emptied Pandora’s box, to make room for more.


EPISODE 2 (of 6)
Back in June 1992, it started with messages. A flirt? A continuation of unfinished hot business? Most of the messages were on tagwalls and it wasn’t difficult to see her being online. But some seem to have been physically closer. That required some phantasy to fill the gaps, glued with observations to pay attention to a girl to read between the lines. Bastian a.k.a Blue had both fantasy and was observant but wasn’t sure. For example, one time, he found some small notes with a thin pen as left a message on his disposable coffee cup. The ink formed some kind of symbol, it looked like a chair, or a seat. She can’t be serious, he thought when staring at the blue ink. Is she referring to the group Stoned Suns symbols? Is she a member there under another alias? He knew that LaMer was member of nemesis, or was she anymore?

At the yearly event of Cassembly in Finland (C and assembler code under one event). Bastian-Blue had his demo with some fellows ready.

Blue started to think using the lower registers of Corpus Callosum, more seen as the rear parts of the brain. Who on Earth had written a greet in the scroller on their demo? He remembered he left his source code up and took a coffee. Later that night, she came over to him while he was laying down under their table for a nap.

- I know that you want me, she whispered. His answer was a mumble. To convince him to follow him, she continued with soft voice.
- This is complicated, its no plug n play, you can stick it in anywhere.

I guess that convinced him. They shared the night in nemesis car. And in the morning, he started to draw an image of her posing as model (“She” by Byte, Graphite party, Denmark, October 1993). The party was over, and he suffered for lust to be with her again. This void, limbo of erotic dreams to catch her again. 

After Cassembly ’92, on the ferry home, she was nowhere to be seen. Wasn’t sure if she got lift with nemesis in their car. Back home in Coburg, it was like the artist chip Denise herself had drawn her brush to his outer world, leaving the safe Amiga case between the CPU and DMA channels where she used to be plugged. Bastian could once again not understand this message. Written with solid red letters of course, but he concluded it was from LaMer and her red signum. His colour was blue but the red colour was not on the B-key like last year. This time the brush was on grid (#), percentage (%) and the number 1 and 9. Games like this excited him. The characters #% was indicating a number, and 19 or 91 was the number. He was confused of this new sign.

He carefully detached the keys and examined them. It was lipstick of red colour. He was impressed how she could enclose her lips around the keys like that. But no other sign was found. Only sinners or stalkers would know if they met some more that year.


EPISODE 3 (of 6)
The year 1993 for LaMer and Blue, started with a change of handle, synchronized for them. She explained for first time her handle in his message-box.
- I like the ocean, and the colour of your alias Blue. It’s pronounced la mer, French for ocean. 
- I thought it was something else, he replied, referring to the camel-styled syntax.
- LaMer? No space needed, she replied. And continued: But with a wedge you can spread it open. Wedges are there to get space were space was occupied before. You can fill my spaces, she smiled invitingly.

Of course, this piece of information stunned him. Was she from France originally? It was easier to come in her than to get information out of her obviously. That night, who knows if it was spent together, and in the morning, they changed alias from LaMer to Longword, and Bastian changed to Byte. A silent agreement. But apart from the floppy disk with this information, nemesis updated the group information about their members, and Bastian tagged a picture at Graphite party in the end of 1993 revealing his change to Byte.

The third official meeting between Longword and Byte was consequently at Cassembly in June 1993. While we suspect that he was penetrating her, there must have been she who penetrated him, or his code at least. 

Bastian didn’t know much of her, but she whispered to him while her gentle fingers danced over his chest in an empty sleeping hall while a boring PC demo show.
- Did you figure out number 19 yet on your keyboard?
- No, how could I?
- Well, go to your computer and check your code at that line then, she teased. 

That was not the kind of answer you want to hear in this situation, but he knew that she was serious. He rushed back to his computer and scrolled down to line 19. He didn’t see anything, but he loaded a previous version of his long worked demo since Cassembly last year and saw at line 19 the reason why he couldn’t compile that line, line: [19]:

  Try me as many times as my age for the next week after Cassembly 1993
  ps: I’m not 91 years, other way around, fool *lol*

When Bastian came back to her, still open and ready for a continuation (who wants to go and visit a boring PC demo show anyhow?) she declared her love that they were like two paired copper instructions. One red and one blue. 
- That’s actually four instructions, if you count the waits between, he said. 
- That can be optimized, she smiled back.

That night at lady’s rest room, it was told that Amazona/nemesis hold guard at door so there was no interruption in their ‘performance’. Amazona was discrete and left before they opened the bathroom door.

Speaking about performance, it was also told that Bastian, aka Byte and Longword, managed a quickie with a background music of the floppy clicking sound counted to 79 tracks. A playful amusement together with the comment from her lips, that an unexpanded A500 does not manage to keep a floppy in df0 without change of discs. Dirty talk, no doubt, like too much noise stored in her sectors. He loved her for all that,  contributing to more fantasies then the megademo winner by Desert Faith at Graphite copy party that year. 


EPISODE 4 (of 6)
In spring the next year, it was time for a small meetup in Coburg, only locals, like Byte, his friends from Amiga groups and neighbouring citizens and computer communities. Bastian had prepared a small copper intro ‘LLLL’ . Good Spring 1994 with four L – LLLL short for love, lust, longing, and longword, to meet her once again.  His friend Jens (Ober Frank/TMB was setting up his equipment and showed his newly bought Amiga 600, he sure was a fan of that machine.

A few days earlier, Bastian invited her by sending a love letter in binary code. She replied with a photo of her, wearing nothing except that string of code over her body with a bed of daffodils. Thrilled by her reply, Byte asked if he could send more binaries this kind. She replied that he could if he used a proper destination.

There was no entrance to pay at the party, and she came in as one of the last waving at him. At least ten other guys jaw-dropped when he kissed her gently. Ober Frank actually stopped talking about his A600 for a while.

This time, I think she didn’t interfere with his code of the LLLL demo. Maybe, because she was all over it, or at least the meaning behind. But there was a trouble with Byte’s small copper intro. 
- It should be red colour, he explained to her while looking at the code trying to fix it.
- Do you remember what I said to you about pairwise instructions in copper?
- Yea, that it could be optimized, he replied.
- Well, then look here: there was a missing word, so the copperlist was not even, it was odd numbers of instructions.

Byte was impressed. She seemed to hover over his clothes, like she was lefthanded rolling a mouse over a bumpy pad. He noticed that optimizing was not to add an instruction. Instead, she deleted two wait instructions and the one for colour red. Then she replaced red with purple colour, #$(80,00,80). With softness she whispered:
- My love, this is a mix of you and me, this is our product, 

  This
   is
 Purple.


EPISODE 5 (of 6)
All thought their relationship looked like a paired copper instruction, where the beam wait instruction was set for a meeting or two every year, I am sure they met more. However, the next meeting that was officially, at least stated as scene news in the diskmag F.L.O.P.P.Y by Goths.
Once again, she came back to him, again Spring time leaving over a daffodil with her smell attached on the flower like dew drops.

Bastian had pulled out electricity through cables with generators behind an old industrial area, crossing some dikes and into a harvest field, some 300 meters out to an old oak tree. He had her at ‘hello world’, she said. and I waited as your slave copper instruction, was his reply. With blindfolded eyes he led her gently down to the oak, where a picnic was set up, and some of the best chip modules played from that time like Miffler, Django, Jean-C and wizardking to mention a few good composers. Also, Amazona/nemesis was in his playlist, due the closeness of her group and loyal friend to Longword.

At this place in 1995 he asked for her hand, and they married without witnesses.


EPISODE 6 (of 6) 
Some say real party is outside, in fact if you ask Byte and Longword, its inside.

The best time to make love under the table is before the intro compo. Regardless how little sleep you have got, no matter how twisted your daily and night hours are, competitions are for most computer people kind of holy (see appendix C, A.o.S, 1993). Excitement while waiting for the compo in the front of the all. Excitement and legs around hips in the back of the party hall. The keyboard was down to nearly every single key pressed due the weight. He opened up Deluxe paint and let the faith decide. It’s a sin to violated the Amiga this way, but an exception had to be made. The hips on the hardware rolled in waves over from functional keys down to space and back again. Sad that it wasn’t an Atari we massacre he pressed out between his teeth. A shiver and a smile back were the silent answer before she looked at the screen, it was some kind of abstract nonsense painted. Not beautiful but it was some kind of avant-garde art made right there while the others were looking at the intro compo.

According to the floppy I got to retell this story, the pixels were purple while she answered:
- Only an Amiga could make this real.

She saved the image they made that night and handed it over it over to free style graphics compo.


EPILOGUE
The graphic entry called ‘the product of red and blue’ was not beautiful, or the best. But somehow, this love couple had created a legendary aura around them, rumours about them, images, tagwall-messages and the way they were symbiotic twinned. If the demo scene ever was a bunch of movies, then this story would fall under the category of ‘True romance’. And the scene needed some kind of color than just the pure bits of 0 and 1.

Their entry in free style graphic did not end up last. It got a place in the middle. Just like in the middle between a byte (B) and a Longword (L).

In 1996, their daughter Wendela was born, or W for Word.


Retold by Sanite/Arty


.END

- - -

All characters, groups, releases and places are fictive and lack any kind of truth or realism. In case of meetings with the real world, its pure coincidental. The scene novel is written for you coffee to taste better. Sce-fi, or Scene Fiction is genre that the author has invented in the 90s and over years polished.

