[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Grill & Chill party report from DevLab Wuppertal
by Ghandy

There have been several Grill & Chill events this year, where people get together, having a barbecue and sipmly have fun. About 20 people come each time, some of whom are also involved in the demoscene. In December there is an annual meeting in a brewery. A C64 intro, coded by Spider, is published for almost every event. Every guest is allowed to leave greetings and thoughts for the traditional party scroller. The happening takes place in the DevLab in Wuppertal.

What is the DevLab?

The two small rented halls in the middle of an industrial estate are run by a not-for-profit association. The DevLab is primarily a makerspace. There are 60 square metres of 3D printers, machine tools, workbenches and other tools available to members of the association. There is also a grow station, for example, where hemp plants are automatically lit, watered and heated. This, of course, is a science in itself. ;-)

In addition, founding member Amitac (Ami of The Solaris Agency, ex-Tristar) has set up countless retro games consoles such as a Sega Megadrive and many more for you to try your hand at. This includes TheA500 Mini and much more. The reason for this was that his wife no longer wanted to see all the technical stuff at home. A big TV gives a good picture and decent sound. Most of the time it is used for general background music.

Noise is not a problem at all. There are no flats around the two rented halls. Most of the businesses are closed at the weekend or don't mind the noisy guests from the Chill and Grill. It always starts in the early afternoon. If you want, you can stay until the early hours of the morning or sleep there. There is plenty of space. Even for me as a dog owner this is a great thing because my dog Fram is welcome there and nothing can happen because there is no car traffic. The atmosphere is very relaxed, most of the visitors are always the same. People know each other and have plenty to talk about. At some point the sun goes down and people just move indoors when it gets too cold.


The concept

One of the co-founders explains that the concept is different from the other makerspace in Wuppertal. The whole thing is a hobby project of several friends, the relationship of trust should be maintained. New applicants must first introduce themselves in peace and quiet to get an idea of whether they fit in on a personal level. It's better not to have additional members than to bring conflict into the house. There is valuable equipment on the premises that can be used by third parties after consultation and instruction. Start-ups can even use the space for a fee to take their first steps. This is called DevLab SpinOff.

Theoretically, the space could also be used as a co-working space, because there is free Wi-Fi for everybody. But that hasn't happened yet. There is hardly anyone there during the day, at least during the week. Each member of the association gets their own key, and there is also a big sofa and a fridge. Anyone who has ever been to a hackerspace will feel right at home.

The next Grill and Chill will take place at the 8th September, starting at 3pm. Of course, interested people and other guests are also welcome. If you would like to eat from the barbecue, you should bring something by arrangement. There are always plenty of sausages, bread and salad. Not to mention the delicious beer and other drinks without alcohol.

I'll be there again and can highly recommend a visit to everyone. Even if only a few of the people there are active in the demoscene themselves, they know exactly what it's all about. A beer together and some friendly tech talk is always a good idea anyway. 

See you there next time!


