[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]editorial thoughts: on AI
by Darkhawk (Eurochart)


In maximum 15 sentences, would you like to write if AI is going to effect the scene/amiga scene and elaborate your thoughts?


Reply:
good topic, and yeah, I can do that, you caught me at a good time and will get my first scene article since... Ahehm... I don't know. Might be close to two decades. Only 15 sentences, following your instructions to the letter, if not in the spirit of it, because those are rather long sentences ;) Still, I'm touchy about anyone editing me, so if it needs to be shorter, tell me and I'll cut it down myself :)

Doom and I actually experimented with ChatGPT 3.5 on this topic last year - asking it to code a 50fps glenzvector for OCS Amiga's in assembler. That was my real 'woah' moment in regards to what LLM's can do, because it both gave us functional code and stressed repeatedly that it would be very challenging to do 50fps on old Amigas, complete with the right suggestions for optimizations. We also couldn't detect where it had its training data from, the wording felt like its own and I couldn't identify wording from any Amiga demoscene tutorials I knew of. And that was ChatGPT 3.5, so in the future I'm pretty sure you could easily make LLM's do quite a few effects with just the bare minimum of assembler knowledge. Of course image generation is even further along, and can already be used to create perfect images, also retro-styled, and if we had a lively diskmag scene, well - it would not be too hard to AI generate articles either, training an LLM on my old articles and having it sound arrogantly sure of everything, mostly outputting 'Swapping is not dead' articles. 

So, will this affect the Amiga scene? Yes of course, and also in ways RSI Demomaker (around 1991) and Demomaniac (around, eh, 1995) didn't, because it would be harder to spot/prove that it was AI generated/assisted and because everything can be generated - pictures are already there, with code, articles and music not so far behind. 

However, I don't really worry for the Amiga scene, because it's already a very small scene, without much new blood joining. That's of course not a positive in general, but it makes it somewhat unattractive to 'cheat' (i.e. use AI without stating this) - because of your established reputation if it was discovered/suspected, but also simply because for those who have spent decades in the scene honing their skills, I don't think it would be appealing to blatantly cheat and claim credit. Of course the real 'controversy' might come at the muddy middle - sceners being honest with using AI as a tool, adding their own touch, achieving more, faster - in the old days, diskmags would have overflowed with heated discussions about whether that was ok, lame or cool - as they did with Photoshop or external code libraries. 

But in that case, no matter your opinions on the matter, AI is a tool, and tools get used if they're convenient enough, especially perhaps in the PC scene - the Amiga scene is more about old hardware and using simple tools to achieve what is possible. Some will make use of the tools, others won't, and that's ok, because that's how it is, technology changes what we are used to all the time - but I think the Amiga scene will self-regulate somewhat because for many, sticking to an old computer, it is also about what you can do yourself within set confines, not in the easiest way, but in a difficult, (occasionally) rewarding way where you evolve your skills and get nods from your peers. It's not like that for everyone and that's ok - them using AI might create new and cool styles too - but for a good chunk of the Amiga scene, this 'pioneer/hands-on' ideology probably means we're less susceptible to the worst-case scenarios of this new technology. 

But if you suddenly see a release coded by me, with a glenzvector routine, do be a bit wary..."
