[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]editorial thoughts: on AI
by Jazzcat (Taboo)


In maximum 15 sentences, would you like to write if AI is going to effect the scene/amiga scene and elaborate your thoughts?


Reply:
In all this AI madness, the most amazing thing is that suddenly everyone started to speak with one voice: that people are expendable and will lose their jobs, which will then lead to depopulation, guaranteed basic income for all, abolition of cash, Skynet... Of course, it cannot be denied that there are certain forces that want our world to be like this. Nevertheless, whenever the world reacts with astounding unanimity, a red light in my head flashes. We've seen this in recent years - propaganda was off the scale, because some companies wanted to make billions of dollars. I'm afraid it's the same with AI now. Greedy big tech companies invest millions of dollars and they expect that the investment will pay off many times over. Besides that they want to attract investors. The true motivation behind the AI influencers become obvious when you realize that there is no talk about the wonders that AI can bring to medicine or science, but only about how to replace all creators and get rich on it. And will it actually happen? We are living in the Wild West now and one can easy buy into the hype, but I anticipate it will be regulated in some way and AI will be an option, not the only solution. So far, AI has no understanding of what it creates. It's splintered plagiarism. See what happened to Udio recently. That being said, is AI potentially dangerous for humanity? Of course. Will computers overpower us? Yes, they probably will at some point. But should we all obediently enter panic mode now? I don't have a crystal ball, but I think the future will be completely different than what is being said today. I'm tired of the fear porn terror campaign. But... if I'm wrong and it is indeed the end of the world (and most importantly: the Amiga scene!) then at least before it all collapses we will witness an explosion of new, awesome demos. Just imagine all kinds of crazy prompts: make me an A500 demo that is better than EON and Hologon, has tighter sync than any of Blueberry's productions ever had and contains my latest DAW song converted to 150kb Protracker module. Watch this space!!!