[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]editorial thoughts: on AI
by Judge Drokk^ex-Anarchy (Stolen Data)

Thanks to A.I, we no longer know what is real any more. From product descriptions on eBAY, to photographs in the news or even your child's homework.  I can see why creators are annoyed or even afraid. Why spend hours,  days or even weeks creating an original artwork when A.I can do the same or better in 20 seconds?  On the other hand, A.I allows those that do have the imagination and ideas but not the skill to realise. Over thirty years ago I was the editor of Anarchy's  Stolen Data disk magazine. Would I have used A.I back then - sure, in the correct circumstances. As a tool - an aid. Just as we use computers to help in other ways. As with any tool - in the wrong hands it can become a threat if done to cheat. In the Amiga scene it conceivable that it could be used to deceive. If it is used then it should be made clear. I can attest to the above points,  last  Autumn I worked with demoteam 'Artstate' to create a logo for a forthcoming intro, and made the logo using A.I software. I was given a short brief of the style and I provided many examples. The favoured image was then manipulated by hand to achieve the final result which can be seen in 'Sign of Life' Amiga demo by Artstate, and is credited correctly and honestly. I recently asked the coder,  Motion of Artstate,  if he thought A.I was a threat to the Amiga scene, he replied " I don’t think it's a threat at all. It is a tool, just like a 3D rendering package or an image scanner ". In my own opinion the two should be able to co-exist. Over the past 20 years little has changed within the style and trends of creative Amiga output, maybe A.I could even help change things in a positive  way, though it has to be done honestly and responsibly. 
As an ex Amiga magazine editor in the 1990s, and now also writer for physical and digital magazine ZZAP! AMIGA, I can also say I have used AI to create 'photographs' for use in two recent features on the subject of Amiga parties. In these I mixed real photos and A.I generated scenes of a real event, an Anarchy party I organised in the UK in 1992.  Available party footage is of low VHS quality and it did not capture some of the events that took place, some of the memories were unique to myself. So A.I was these perfect tool to recreate these from scenes from my memory, and I was very impressed with the results. On these terms, A.I is the future. We just have to be open and honest when it is used. 


Post note Versus staff:  
Sign of Life with logo (credited to AI) is seen here https://youtu.be/7-DTprXfBZk?si=E4CbgCsToHBNYmNy  
