[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]editorial thoughts: on AI
by Browallia (Cows n Snakefights)


AI, something that started to be broadly hot after chatGPT release Summer 2023 and used in many fields. Farfar/Loonies did not allow AI entries in the freestyle gfx compo (pouet thread, Aug 2022). 

So, I asked editors from various magazines with the topic 

Is AI going to effect the scene/amiga scene and elaborate your thoughts?
(short answers, like 15 sentences are fine)

and got great responses from Judge Drokk, Darkhawk, Ghandy, Zerox and Jazzcat

After mailing puh/Agony^Citron (editor Oepir Risti) he simply stated that he doesn't know much about AI. Some other people not on the hook but where we had some kind of fish on the hook for a while were lord helmet and estrup. Maybe you come back one day.

After all of these great contributors about, I also write my thoughts representing Cows n Snakefights diskmag:

Im not sure how much AI I know, but I think that creative process should remain for humans. 

I think AI can shorten some time to elaborate with things we think are 'boring' and we know we can master ourself but just a time saver. Thats why I disagree with Gargaj/Conspiracy on this point, when he compare AI for a graphics compo cheating with the fill-tool of deluxe paint. No thats no AI, thats just a simple tool so this is not a fair compare (same pouet thread as above).

Where I think AI is ok:

The diskmag editor:
- can you spell check this text and see if the title make sence to this article?

The graphician:
- AI, can you write a chessboard to me with 16x16 pixels per square?

The coder:
- give me a randomized table of sinus values

The musician:
- can you give examples of fitting chords after C-E-G in C-major?

What I not think is ok:

The graphician:
- Can you make a tree that looks like it comes from Lord of the Rings, the roots should look like pencils and the leaves should look like vote sheets. Afterwards when Im satisfied, can you generate three step-by-step drawings how you made it?

The coder:
- can you give suggestion how to optimize this code in terms of saving bytes for my 4k-intro?

The musician:
- give me a melody thats close to Chris Huelsbeck most famous song but twist it so its not recognizable with a blend with giana sisters main theme in same harmonized scale

I am not sure how AI will affect the creative process of demomaking. But seen as a tool, AI made demos will be accepted at one point later when pushing the boarders. Wild compos I predict will be the first to lower the anti-AI barrier. But I ask myself: is this a fun way to continue with the demo scene, or will a new scene (like e-sport phenomena) arise?
