[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]AI is a bubble hype
By Cefa68000/Nukleus


I am getting a little tired of the current new Unicorn technology AI. It seems a lot a money and work are being done on the new AI tech like ChatGPT and Code pilot. I have used Code Pilot at work sometimes and it was fun an helpful sometimes but recently I am getting annoyed with the constant prompting and code suggestions that don’t work. So, I recently have been turning it off and being able to be more productive. I still use it sometimes but now I am mostly using it a more advanced google search.

Many people believe that AI is not intelligent, but it does not understand context and what words means. AI like ChatGPT is work more like a advanced search engine with statistical probability data. It very impressive technology but calling it intelligence is kind of wrong. Recently a Facebook entry by Chucky of The Gang was flag and removed by Facebook AI because it had the words burn and flash in them. But the entry was about how to update the firmware of an accelerator board he worked on. 

And these types of errors happen all the time with AI technology. And AI also tends to hallucinate and give a totally crazy suggestions sometimes which is very annoying. But the tech media hype is kinds of dangerous. Recently a payment service company (Klarna) fired all theirs support staff and uses some kind of AI now. This will probably work for maybe 70-80 % of all the support queries but for those poor people where the Klarna AI / FAQ engine gets it wrong they are screwed. 

Also, lots of companies are getting into and buying AI tech and started using with there own data. But they don’t understand that the reason ChatGPT is impressive is that had terabytes of data to learn from and your company data is probably not that large. So, the result they will get will probably be very wrong or not very helpful. AI, has it uses but I think that to many people will start to use it in situations where it’s not well suited for. 

But I hear from tech consultants/evangelist that your company needs to invest now to be prepared for the future AI advancements that is coming. But this is very wrong you should invest time and energy in figuring what problem you want to solve with AI and if it appropriate for the problem. And you should very wary that AI is not 100% correct. So, you should have people that can check the result before using it. I am reading in the news about using AI for taxes and legal problems. And these type of AI scares me because what happens when AI gets it wrong in legal documents and your tax papers. 

There are companies with problems where AI would be helpful, but these are probably very large companies (Microsoft, Google) with lots of data to train their AI with. But for many other companies that aren’t that large it probably will be too much work and not very useful and very expensive. Remember AI is cheap now but that because they have stupid investors behind them paying for everything. But this is only temporary it will come a time when all these AI servers will need to be paid by the customer/client.

In summary I think AI is a very cool technology, but it should be used sparingly and with great thought and preparation. And be wary that there are lots of AI startup right now selling AI crap right now like Rabbit R1.
