[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]Shaped by a scene
by Wolfman/Balance


A nostalgic look back at this thing called the scene and how it made me quit high school


So it turns out that trying to make some room in your basement in your late 40’s can involve nostalgic flash backs to years long past, and also - in this case - be used as a hook for my first editorial piece in a few decades.

Specifically: One double floppy disc storage box (listed as “vintage” on Etsy - thanks, assholes) packed with 3 and half inch floppies. Each decorated with home made stickers and/or sharpies of various colors. They’re likely toast by now, but still a painful reminder of my comatose Amiga 1200 - still stored in my working room though - out of respect.

And then the four binders. Each packed beyond capacity with letters; with widely varying colors, sizes, paper quality as well as condition. Snail mail from all of Europe and a handful from other continents as well. They came with disks - wrapped in creative ways, some with the stamps coated or taped over in some way for recycling… “Please return stamps!”

Each package represented a contact of course, news from that end, things to respond to and new things to see - a slideshow, music disc, demo or another diskmag maybe? 
I can still recall the sound of parcels starting to hit the floor in the hallway in the morning - one by one. How many today?


Safe tech haven

For what seems like the majority of my teenage years, I was consumed with the scene and “my” diskmag, Upstream.
I was Wolfman of Balance. Editor-in-chief, organiser and swapper, and at the height of it all, it seemed like the parcels just kept on coming through the mail slot - to my parents amazement and the mailmans concern of all that computer virus on the disks he heard so much about (true story).

To the best of my recollection I got in on the scene around 1990 and I think it gradually ended as I joined the army in the summer of 1996. It was also at a time when I had also started engaging a bit in youth politics, which offered some of the same ingredients as the scene did: Community and an opportunity to do publishing and organising.

But it would be fair to say that the scene helped spark my interests and joy in organising, writing and publishing. On top of that it offered a community of peers for an insecure middle class only child like myself who wasn’t much into sports or conventional parties.

My parents were sceptical, but somewhat supportive. They didn’t really understand the scene, but it wasn’t gaming. I was writing and not out stealing mopeds or shooting smack. 
It’s probably a good thing they didn’t know what happened at various demoparties, or how stamp “recycling” and “borrowed” AT&T cards were not uncommon in scene communication at that time.  


The pivotal party

Though a lot of details about my scene life are blurry at best, one stands out as being pivotal in my life in an odd and slightly dramatic way: The Gathering 1993 party in Lillestrøm, Norway. Things were really picking up for Upstream and Balance, and I badly wanted to go as I think we wanted to release an issue of Upstream, and of course meet with new Balance members as well as many of the different contacts I had. 

To cut a long story short: I quit high school without my parents knowledge (initially) so I could do Upstream and make money to go to The Gathering - I was also not enjoying high school, mind you.
Suspecting that my parents probably wouldn’t be too impressed with that particular plan alone, when the inevitable face off came up, I devised this plan for my defensive speech: Earn money (and go to The Gathering), take 3 years of business school, join the army for a year, mess around for a year or two, study to become a journalist - the latter inspired by the fact that I thought I was already kind of doing it.
I don’t really recall if I had total faith in this plan myself at the time, but as it turned out that was exactly what happened. 

The Gathering was a hoot, and the years that followed was a great ride where Upstream topped the charts, and the parcels kept on dropping in the hallway. 
We took Balance from being a small bunch of friends who met at the local computer club, to having members in all of Scandinavia and a few other countries. We were more often than not featured in the mandatory greetings in various demos and the likes. Basically what I believe I aspired to at the time: being among the best within my particular branch of hobby - being a somebody.


Times are a changing - people not so much

Around that time I probably had a hard time imaging something beyond my scene life. I enjoyed doing it. We kicked ass and the majority of my social life lay within Balance.
Nevertheless, as time passed things gradually started to slow down with my scene activities. I’m guessing perhaps that I - unconsciously - felt I had achieved what I could achieve on the scene. 

I also found new friends outside of the scene and new outlets when it came to publishing, so it was more or less a foregone conclusion, that I wouldn’t be coming back when I went off to serve my time in the military in the summer of 1996. 
From then on I have no idea what happened to the scene as a whole - its continued existence was brought to my attention just weeks ago.

Returning from the army I got further engulfed into youth politics, which satisfied my need to publish stuff and even offered a paying job for a period of time. One of my best friends was also a part of this, and as with the demo scene I was consumed. 

I quite distinctly remember thinking at some time, that I didn’t much want it to end, maybe in this case though because the social life of youth politics was somewhat richer than what I recall the scene being able to muster - at least the demographics seemed significantly more encouraging. 
But in hindsight politics was basically just another scene and, which also gradually lost my interest - despite my previous concerns.

As an amusing side note to the political part it would be worth mentioning that another former scener of some stature (A swapper in Jewels is the closest I can come to his scene identity) made national chairman of the organisation at about the same time I was moving on to chase the dream of becoming a journalist.


Full circle

After university I worked as a journalist for 10 years doing various things that journalists do in various jobs. Some tv, some writing, some sports. 
With the internet involved it sometimes felt like the Upstream days all over again. Not so much when it was a shit assignment or just plain conveyer belt production of a Reuters feed.

Journalism or “the media” the media eventually got the better of me, and along with discovering Drupal, I also discovered that building websites often feels like building LEGO - and I do enjoy building LEGO. 
So I have more or less ended up where it all started - messing around with computers. For the past 5 and half years as a web developer for a danish NGO.

My need for community has been covered volunteering for the football fan club I’ve been supporting for the past 27 years. I did some writing, I did a website, I’m currently doing a new website. You get the idea. I guess that is my scene now.


The legacy

Thanks to Social Media I’m still connected with the old crew. We held a reunion back in 1999, and every now and then for the past 15 years or so we’ve been talking about doing another. 

With the exception of a few, I lost touch with all my old contacts. A notable exception would be Hungarian Jean from Absolute! who stayed at my place before a (notorious) party on Samsø in the summer of 1992. Not long after that he returned to stay in Denmark to work for a while.
We had a good night out in Copenhagen back in 2001 and are still in touch.

So even though the curtain fell for me on the demo scene years ago, it certainly made its mark. 
