[bkg=bg.pbm][h1]a brief summary of 2 decades
by Browallia/Nukleus


Everyone face a time, where we have to make a choice. Its not always like we go on a road and then, we can turn left or right. For me, that sounds like a choice of continuation. But how about this situation: that we dont aim to continue? It can be that we walk a road, and simply stop. There is no traffic signs for this stop. There is no Morpheus offering a red and a blue donut. No. It can be inside you and no one else tell you how to progress.


THE BEGINNING, IDEA AND TIME AROUND VERSUS #1 
Idea came up in 2003, and one year later, we were up and spinning. I think Rumrunner/Void, who was running Saxonia with very personal stories inspired me. I liked the honest touch. At this time, we had plenty of mails. You know this kind of penpal we all secretly want to have, but a few would admit? This kind of penpal relationship evolved between us. 

Rumrunner briefly dreamed about starting a chartmag, and I know, that I had the stubborn power to fullfill this. As you know 20 years later, THAT kind of stubborn power :) Me in turn came up with the name Versus, the shortcut (vS), and we started to elaborate about chart categories together.

Further, Rumrunner (and greatful for this decision) prefered Amiga 500 release, and should work on vanilla - plain A500. Me in turn, came up with the design of the swapping categories (every third issue, 2 categories were repeated). Reason was that not enough releases were dropped. Some categories there was not enough things happening (slideshows, music disks, swapper etc) so better to have less frequency so some new releases can come out. Also the for fun category was part of this design to make Versus more attractive to others. Here we used best game, best nickname or recently most important event in Amiga history (1985-2024).


20 YEARS REFLECTION
Word Charts had just came out in Spring 2003. Me and rumrunner use to have a frequent contact back then. We were both enthusiastic, and built in a concept around Versus. Catchphrase you are not the only one (inspired by :wumpscut: lyrics) but the first one was how many kings are left? Voting from both first homepage and later reflected a chessboard. We are all farmers looking around the kings and queens. The rest is history and we released first issue 2024. Back then, we in Nukleus had CnS diskmag parallel, while Void had Saxonia. Eurochart was still out, Jurassic Pack just came out with the freezing point edition (Breakpoint 2003) with zito, Darkage still had Showtime around the corner, and not to forget the well made issues of Devotion with an uncertainty to release #3 after 2001, or polish diskmag Taboo with probably a better eastern Europe perspective than any of us. Diskmag scene was broadly vivid 20 years back. None was officially declared except D.I.S.C that announced its last issue.  

We remade the homepage (from the ugly first version I coded in cgi/pearl) together with an upgrade of our group homepage. For the last 15 years or so we started to support OS4 aswell and Android. From the legacy, of the first engines, hukka/void took over rumrunner's A500 job. I loved the two scrollers we had (rumrunners idea) in the first issues, but later removed. 


POST 2010: THE VAGUE AND IRREGULAR REVIEW
In year 2010, only two magazines afaik were there with a stubborn oppinion to anchor the legacy: Jurassic Pack and Versus. I mentioned the OS4 releases we started with.
Another diskmag that was looking on the modern Amiga scene purely was driven by Radzik - the Vague. It came out in 2 issues. No matter how much attention it got, but I think it was good to see that there were other people around who wanted to keep the poor diskmag years around.   
I think Radzik worked very much alone, but we did support or at least offered support. Last I heard from him, was the interview he did with us some years ago. I think its online somewhere.

Irregular review (IR) came out with a new perspective. Only Spaceballs can answer, but I think it was itching the fingers to shred light over products that was the motivation for Menace and Slummy. This imho is not a diskmag, and still it is something closest related to a diskmag. Its about reviews but not intreseting readings more than "oh, my product is mentioned here, hurray, lets see what is written about it". I simply lack the sparkling of diversity of perspectives. But they manage 4 review issues in kind of regualar tempo between 2016-2017, respect. I think Menace wanted another kind of hat on his beard. Something more meaningful (?) than just the gossip lagoon of Amigans, and Demozoo was up. DZ celebrate 10 years this year btw, and of course we send over a cake to the passionate people behind this devoted life task. 
However, do not be surprised if IR comes out again, but not sure if Menace want to split his mind beeing objective in Demozoo, with zooming into products specifically on Amiga. Time will tell.



Pre-COVID- post-COVID and 2024
For issue #8 we asked what people wanted to have as  for fun-category and "diskmag we miss most" was decided this way. Same way (curt cools idea?) was the "best old skool fx" and that was a such fun category so we used it in issue #9 aswell. For current issue, I remember me reflecting of having this again, but the category is far too static so #10 we used best newcomer/comeback instead.

Every issue of Versus took an effort that demanded some rest afterwards until it became fun again. For myself I realised that these cycles of releases took longer time. The covid years could have been well suited for creativity and spitting out releases, but not only in the diskmagscene, also demos suffered from this time. Sofa-sceners increased, mirroring we were all defeated by the big blob called lazyness.

Best Asciian was in fact a category we started to use every third issue, just because the experienced said that not many people voted there. Im glad that we used it more often and we can also see that the support for this category increased. I would say that the interest for ascii increased again, and I think that most of the major parties today, offer a compotitiion again for ascii/petscii/ansi. This was not always the case.

After first issue, best swapper disappeared. The interest wasnt high enough. Best slideshow was another category that (sadly) has too little productivity. In Versus #9 I talked with the group that we should skip best diskmag and best diskmag writer. Reason was of course too few releases. For diskmag writer, I wanted everyone (pouet thread) to come up with names who are active today. And announced that also a social publisist (e.g. blogger, moderator, or people who write more than one liners could be seen as writers. This would not be in the traditional way a "best diskmag writer" would be seen, but the interest of writing had to be modernized I thought. 


KEY VALUES AMONG THE ROAD
When I reflect about the key values for Versus, it can be put down to four keys to get that vehicle in motion.

-First, both Rumrunner and myself shared the liberal spirit that we let people vote what they want. Its simply too stressful to not let people to vote for old things, but remember that votes reflect what people want. I think this is also realated to my own thought that the scene should not be some kind of closed barrier, but rather a open perspective. So rather than let a small clique of people tell what is the scene, I would go with that the people reshape the scene, once again a liberal view.

-Then, I think one strength was that we later aimed for A500-, OS4-, android and online releases of every issue. It was necessary because we wanted to target the wider scene. This is strongly connected to the team around versus. Only a fool would think this is a one mans job. No, I was very depending on the other team members and without good communication this would not have worked.

-The third key for us was the social media with both twitter and facebook. Through these channels we also retrieved inspiration, ideas and feedback. I think for Versus 7, 8 and peaked at Versus 9 we used more and more channels and pods to reach out. 

-Then finally it was about the the people who supported. This is the true vulnerable Achilles heel. Not enough votes, no issue. One way to test this was to try to reach out with traditional paper votes. I would say that we got around 10-15% of our votes this way. Not much, but as motivation it was essential.



With this text, for Versus as mained, this is now my good bye numero one.
