GRAPHIC IMPRESSIONS BIOGRAPHY

Graphic Impressions of Wausaukee, WI was formed in 1991 as a Commercial
Photography Studio and Slide Imaging Service.  Brian Hartnell has a degree
in Photography with over 20 years experience in corporate photography
departments.  He has owned and worked with Amiga Computers since 1986.

The imaging service revolves around the Amiga computer platform and Brian's
experience in slide processing that dates back to the early 70s. Using this
in-depth knowledge of photo processes and the Amiga Computer he has created
a service bureau to create hardcopies for all your customers needs.

FILM RECORDERS

Film recorders come in three types.  The type of recorder you use will 
affect your output and satisfaction with a service.

   Analog Film Recorders

The lowest quality film recorders are the analog versions such as the
Screenstar and Polaroid palette.  This type of recorder is limited to the
physical monitor size for creating slides from computer graphics.  The file
can not be overscan or anything higher than the normal video display modes.
This was the first generation film recorder, designed to address the text 
area of a monitor display.  These recorders also are pixilated and have 
scanlines in the final image because of their low resolution and the way 
they create images.

   Digital Film Recorders

Digital Bitmap film recorders solved all of these former problems by accept-
ing any size image up to the physical resolution of the hardware.  They scan the
image one line at a time through a three filter exposure which is determined
by brightness and exposure settings, calibrated for the file sizes being
imaged.  The pixel edges are not imaged as sharply as Postscript and main-
tain the appearance of photorealism.  Examples of this type of recorder are
the Polaroid Digital CI3000 or CI5000, and LFR series film recorders.  Most 
of the Amiga community is currently creating images below 1504 X 960 
(Toaster High Res) pixel bitmaps which fall under the 2000 line resolution 
of the CI3000 film recorder.  The more pixels sent to the film recorder the 
higher the resolution of the image and the smaller each pixel will appear 
within the image. Dos Bitmap files come in all sizes ranging in 320 X 200
and up to our physical limit of 1650 X 1100.  

Digital film recorders will accept files of any size as long as they do not
exceed the physical limits of the recorder or the services ability to handle
the file.  At 320 X 200 the pixels are represented as large areas in the 
bitmap because they only represent one of 64,000 pixels on screen.  At 
1504 X 960, a pixel is invisible because it represents one of 1,440,000 
pixels in the bitmap.  The more pixels you can create, the higher will be 
your resolution. A 4000 line resolution Bitmap film recorder will not give 
you a better slide unless you send images large enough to support the higher
resolution of that piece of hardware. 4000 line film recorders require a
bitmap of 4000 X 2700 pixels to record at their highest resolution.  A
service can send any size bitmap to the recorder but it generally only
goes in at how many Horizontal X Vertical pixels your file contains. 
So unless you send a file to their service in pixel sizes over 2048 X 1366,
the images will be the same resolution as our service.  Incidentally, you
do not gain anything by scaling an image up to the large proportions 
because you are only magnifying each pixel rather than adding detail to 
the image.  If you start off with a low pixel count, each pixel will be 
quite prominent in the image and create a mosaic tile appearance. 

   Postscript Film Recorders

Postscript output is the sharpest and highest resolution you can attain from
a computer graphic.  Each pixel is imaged very sharply and can impart a
mosaic tile appearance to your image because of this edge clarity.  A
majority of people are working with bitmaps in monitor screen size with or
without overscan and using low input devices such as slow scan digitizers 
like Digiview, DCTV or the Toaster Freeze Frame.  These devices offer
extended color images which are used predominantly in TV production and look
great as NTSC color TV images.  Going to Postscript imaging with low 
resolution files creates the mosaic tile appearance because the pixels are
magnified in size to the recorders maximum output.  Your image started out
for example as a 320 X 200 or 752 X 480, but are enlarged to 4000 X 2700
pixels.  The best way to use Postscript output is to create bitmap images
as physically large as your system will allow and as close to the physical
limits of the recorder or use vector based drawing programs or desk top
publishing programs.


AMIGA VS MAC VS MS-DOS

The Amiga pixel is not square like the MS-Dos and MacIntosh pixel and all
film recorders are designed for square pixels. The Amiga pixel shape is 
directly related to NTSC television output or video display format. This 
pixel shape and interlace scanning capability gives the Amiga a natural 
edge in television output over competing computer systems. 

When transferring Amiga files thru other computer systems, the service may
not make the necessary adjustments in your Amiga file pixel shape and cause
distortion of the image when sent to film recorders that expect to see
square pixels.

Amiga slide services should be making the adjustments to your files using
software scaling.  When this is done, your slides/negatives will look just
like your screen image, without compression or distortion.  We recommend you
create the image using whatever device or software you wish and let the slide
service do the necessary manipulations at the time of the recording.  As you
create the image on your video display, it is easier for you to create the
graphic and judge it using your monitor for setting color, structure,
compositing etc.  If you tried to do the software compressions at your
location you would find your files would not be usable in your video display
on the Amiga monitor.  They would look tall.  This is the type of correction
needed to go to film recorders and was not meant to be used in your video
applications or Amiga monitor output.

Once the files are corrected horizontally for the pixel shape needed to go to
film, it is necessary to decide whether you need to crop your image to fit 
the 35mm slide frame aspect ratio of 1:5 to 1 to fill the frame or image your
entire graphic without cropping.  These options are offered by most services
so the customer can make his selection based on the uses he will be putting
the graphic to.

The Imagine 3D ray trace program allows you to set the PIXEL shape to square 
when you are ready to render.  Set your PIXEL aspect ratio to X=6:Y=6 and you
will be creating images that will go directly to film without the software
manipulations necessary with other Amiga  2D type programs. Let the service
know that you have done this so they do not make additional corrections and
distort your image. Once you set the pixel shape to square, render a file
that is 1.5 times wider than it is high and you will be creating a file
that perfectly fits the 35mm frame with the correct pixel shape for the
film recorder. 

Dos files come in as square pixel images and do not need the software 
scaling.  They do however have to meet the 1.5:1 aspect ratio to fit
the 35mm frame.  You will need to leave room at the top and bottom if you
wish us to crop your image to fill a 35mm slide mount.  Our default is to
place your entire image onto 35mm film with no cropping.  

Download our TOASTTEMP or DPIV-1Temp templates in the Sample Picture file 
area that will show you the actual file drawing safe areas.  The templates
will show you where you can place text and graphics safely so that after
file manipulation the file is the correct pixel shape and cropping size for
a full frame slide.  We will make up any template you wish if you tell us
what size you are working with. The file will be stored in our picture 
upload area for your next download. 

HOW DO FILM RECORDERS WORK

All film recorders are basically the same.  Differences are in speed of imag-
ing, size and quality of the CRT, and the price of the hardware.

Each has a very high resolution flat screen Black & White CRT (Cathode Ray
Tube) inside a box that is vertical or horizontal.  The CRT pixels are 
sharper and smaller than a color monitors.  In front of the CRT is a red, 
green and blue filter wheel and in front of that is the camera device.

Exposure is done through a scan of the image, one line at a time through all
three filters.  The timed exposure through all three filters creates the
finished image on slide, negative or print material.  Images are sent by
software through the RGB connections to the film recorder and control
brightness, exposure time, position of the image to the CRT, and film type.

Photographing the color television monitor with your 35mm camera is limited 
to the 3 dot phosphor clusters which are used to create the image, and what
fits into the camera eyepiece.  The image that is visible on the glass
screen is coarser and TV monitors have glass curvature at the corners that 
will limit your output quality.  This severely limits the number of pixels 
that can render image detail and eliminates the use of any files using 
overscan or super bitmaps.  You can have the best 35mm camera in the world
but the TV monitor's characteristics will limit what your camera will image.

AMIGA FILE SUPPORT

We accept the following Amiga files: DCTV, Framestore, IFF, IFF24, Ham, 
Ham-E, Ham8, Impulse, DV21, QRT, Sculpt, VLAB, RGB, and JPEG.  Saves can be
done on 880K or 1.76K OldFileFormat or FastFileFormat, modem, backup program
or compressed. 
 
IMPORTANT:

Impulse product users can save to any of the Impulse saves, since we
support all of them.  NTSC output devices like DCTV and the Toaster save
their files in the higher color resolution 2 million and 24 bit respectively.
File sizes for DCTV and Toaster proprietary formats are smaller than RGB 
file sizes, so save them in their proprietary form. 

If you have a program and it can render an image to 24 bits, you are always
better off to render at the higher color resolution for higher output.
Test render in Ham or Ham-8 for your approval but send the file out as a
24 bit image.

Create your images with as many pixels as you can which includes overscan
images.  This will insure you better results.  Interlace and overscan both
add pixels to the image which creates larger files and smaller pixels when
sent to the film recorder.  As a normal procedure we add pixels to an image
that is non interlaced so that it can be sent to the recorder and render
correctly, this software scaling is very easy but you always get better
results if you create your images with the overscan and interlace on. The
less a service has to manipulate your image the cleaner the results.


MS-DOS FILE SUPPORT

We support MS-Dos files such as TIF, Targa, BMP, GIF, DPIIE, PCX, X-Windows,
SunRastor File, X11, JPEG and Rendition.  Saving in these formats should be
done on 720K or 1.44K formatted disk if sent by mail.  Dos files are read
directly by Art Department and sent to the film recorder.  
If sending by modem, any file length can be supported using PKZip, 
lha, no compression, or let us know what program you wish to use and we
will verify if it is supportable by our system.

GETTING FILES TO THE SERVICE

Getting Amiga  files to our service, if they exceed a disk size, is done
using many types of programs.  We support Quarterback, ABACKUP, HD-BackUp
(OS 2.04 Tools Drawer), and  Splitz & Joinz to spread your files
and directories over a series of disks.  Compressions can be done using
JPEG, LHA, Lharc, Lhwarp, PKZIP.  If you have another form of compression
let us know. Modem transfers require no special handling.  It is less
expensive to compress the file before transfer if you are dealing in 24
bit or the larger NTSC color device save.

Using JPEG, I recommend Art Departments quality setting of 100 (Highest)
rather than the default of 32.  You will see far less degradation to
the file with the higher setting.  Compressions will still be substantial. 
Call us for suggestions or answers to your questions.

Amiga Dos FFS or OFS 880K and 1.76 disks are accepted. 


BBS & HIGH SPEED MODEM FILE TRANSFERS

24 hours a day, 7 days a week and 365 days a year for file transfers.  Forget
the mail delays, cartridges, floppies, backup programs and get your slides
back faster.  Transfer rates of 14,400 9600, 7200, 4800 in HST Mode and 2400,
1200, &  300 bps in V.22 bis mode are supported.  We support HST mode and
can get CPS rates in the 1900 to 2100 using HST.

Standards supported:
   USR-HST, CCITT V.32bis, CCITT V.32, V.22 bis, Bell 212A, CCITT
   V.23, CCITT V.25, Bell 103, CCITT V.42, CCITT 42 bis, MNP 2-3-4-5,
   CCITT V.54

Our dedicated BBS 24 hour number is 715-856-5496. We support XPRZModem
transfer protocol.  Download the Shareware terminal program Term3.4 for
the best Amiga term program and to insure complete compatibility.  

Picture file uploads by customers are protected from anyone gaining
access to your files.  They are then downloaded to our system for
processing and deleted when the job is completed.  Messages left for
the Sys Op are confidential and the BBS does not support other persons
reading your messages or downloading your files.  This is to prevent
access to your files or credit card information by any unauthorized
individuals.  We do not support piracy of software program, your visual
files, or messages so we have placed restrictions to the system to protect
our customers privacy.  

Your order will not be processed without a valid card number or prior
financial arrangement.  We do not take responsibility for meeting your
deadlines when your information about credit card purchases is not valid.
First time users of our Files to film service must make financial
arrangements prior to delivery.  We do not bill first time users of the
service.

Download the file GIElectronicOrderForm.  This form must be filled out and
returned with your order or it will not be processed.  This order form
takes the place of our paper order form and contains all information and
credit card numbers that we need to process the order. 

Look into the utilities section for programs that will assist you in using
our BBS or for general info.  We support Public Domain programs that are
freely distributable and do not take responsibility for any damage that
may occur during their use on other systems.  If you have a shareware or
freeware program that would be useful to our customers please feel free
to upload all pertinent docs and files per the shareware/freeware
statements made by the author for free distribution.  Any software not
having the complete files will be deleted from our system for not meeting
the authors disclaimer.

Be sure to download our BBS Electronic Order form that gives us the
information we need to fill out your order.  This form must be included
with every order uploaded to our BBS.

A disk with Amiga utilities is available for $3.00 if you wish to get the
disk rather than download.  Send a self addressed stamped envelope with a
request for the GI BBS disk.

Check out our Sample picture base which contains picture templates for the
DPaint and Toaster Paint programs.  These templates will help you design 
your graphic for 35mm format and show you the safe areas. 

PRICING POLICY

Graphic Impressions offers two levels of pricing based on the size of the
file.  All prices are based on the actual file size before compressions
& modem transfer.

We offer all files under 100,000 bytes, uncompressed, for $5.95 each.  This
would include everything in normal Amiga resolution and overscan with 2 thru
Ham-8 color paint programs.  As long as the file is under 100,000 bytes
(uncompressed) it is $5.95.  To find out how large the file is use a disk
utility like Diskmaster, Shell/CLI or Dos Prompt. The list or dir command
will allow you to see the size of your files in bytes.

Files over 100,000 bytes, uncompressed, are $7.50 each. There is no surcharge
for extra large files.   This would include Toaster, DCTV, severe overscan 
sizes, super bitmaps and anything in 24 bits up to 1650 X 1100 pixels.

Additional originals from each file are $5.00 each and are exactly the same
quality.

We have a minimum charge of $40.00.  It would take 7 files at $5.95 to meet
our minimum and 6 files at $7.50.  If you don't have the minimum we will fill
out your order with additional originals up to the $40.00.

Same day slide turnaround is 100% extra and must be arranged in advance.
We can image to negative film and send you the raw film for processing at
your location for same day turn around with no additional charge.  We
advertise 48 hour turn around but the majority of orders go out in 24 hours.
BBS orders arriving will be completed 24 to 48 hours from when they are
received by Graphic Impressions.  Please do not ask for same day
turn around on slides if you are not prepared to pay the 100% surcharge.

Shipping and handling are extra. We now ship all orders US Priority $7.00,
US Express $15.00 or Federal Express $20.00.

We can bill shipping to your federal express number and we only charge you
a $5.00 handling fee.

The minimum charge applies to each film type you request.  Black & white
negatives, 35mm slides and 35 color negatives are separate processes.  Each
would require the $40.00 minimum.

Modem transfers can be paid by Master Card or Visa or by prior billing
arrangements with us.   No orders will be processed without prior arrangements
for payment. Electronic transfers must be accompanied by the electronic 
order form which you must fill out to give us the necessary information
that we would normally get with the written order form.  Please download 
the GIElectronic Order Form on your first session and include it with 
your files to be imaged. Your order may be delayed if it is not accompanied
by the order form. 

Check out our free slide/or free negative offer located in the text file
area of the Gfiles. 

New customers are required to pay in advance for the first order and can
then set up a billing account for future services.  Orders using charge 
cards with numbers that do not clear the bank will be held until payment
is arranged.  No orders will be shipped without payment arrangements
completed.  Make sure your charge card numbers are complete and usable.  We
do not take responsibility for delays in meeting your deadlines when billing
arrangements are not completed correctly. All outstanding orders must be 
paid before any additional orders are completed.  Make prompt payments to
avoid delays. 

Overseas orders please read the international readme file for payment
instructions. 

SAMPLES

For 2 slide samples, a sample color print from a negative, brochure and
order form call (Voice)  1-715-856-5627, or write to Graphic Impressions,
P.O. Box 254, Wausaukee, WI  54177, or leave feedback on the BBS (data)
715-856-5496 by typing a message with your Name, address, phone number and
where you saw our ad and that you wish to receive the samples. .

We look forward to hearing from you and hope this clears up any questions
you may have about our computer graphic to film recording service.

Don't overlook the ability to framegrab video scenes and create negatives
that can be sold as print packages to your customers.  We are getting a lot
of interest in making prints from video scenes (Weddings, architectural
renderings, photo restorations, for a video storyboard, or brochure
support, etc).

Brian & Ann Hartnell
Graphic Impressions
