International callers must dial the long distance operator for their 
countrys long distance code and then dial our number after the code.
Long distance codes vary from country to country and we cannot 
determine which specific code you may need to use to connect to  our
phone number in the United States. If you dial our number 1-715-856-5627
we were told you will be given a message to contact your long distance
carrier for the country code so save a call and dial the operator
first for that code. 

Once you establish what code to use for your specific country you will
be able to dial direct without assistance from the operator. Our BBS is
on line 24 hours a day and you may take advantage of lower rates since
we can accept your calls at any time irregardless of the time in your
country or the date. If we see you log on you may chat with the SysOp
just by typing c at the prompt or leave feedback. 

International checks or money orders, Visa or MasterCard are the only
acceptable forms of payment and should be made out to Graphic
Impressions. 

Your total will include:

1.  The number of files
2.  Times the cost per file (Uncompressed sizes), 
3.  Postage and handling for your country.

Our order minimum is $40.00 plus shipping and handling.

All modem orders are eligible to one free file but this file is not 
used to bring you over the minimum charge. Get several people together
to meet the minimum and get an extra graphic done free. 

Example 6 files under 100,000 bytes ($5.95 Each) are $35.70 and under
the minimum.  You would be charged $40 US plus shipping and handling.
2nd example: 6 files over 100,000 bytes ($7.50 Each) are $45 US plus
shipping and handling for your country. 

Log onto our board and download or upload at any time, there are no 
restrictions to how long you are on the board or how many times you
can log on. After answering the required questions you are allowed to 
access all downloadable files on any of our UDBase areas on your first
call. This board is secure for our customers and does not allow 
communications to other users because our sole intent is to distribute
shareware we find productive for our clients and to upload files for
processing. Questions about any subjects can be left as feedback and 
answers will be posted for 1 week then deleted. 

Creating hardcopy from your Amiga Graphics is our business and we strive
to do it in the shortest possible time.  Customs slow down the process
and you must be prepared ahead of time to take this delay into 
consideration. Our turnaround in the US is 48 hours for slides and negs. 
If you do not have to ship disks and use a modem to transfer we can cut
the turnaround for you by returning a smaller lighter package that does
not have as much problem clearing customs.  Check your country for the 
import restrictions to make sure that slides, negatives, and computer
disks are not banned items in your country.  


  
