                       »PIC:Kollaps3.iff»          
»CL9:»SML:----------------------
»CL8:»BIG:The 5.25-inch drive
»CL9:»SML:----------------------

»CL5:  by Coma of Mantra



»CL0:Recently I became a PC owner. I got it
from a friend who had upgraded to a
ridiculously over-speeded 400 MHz
machine. It was nothing more than an
old P120, but fully functional. All it
lacked was a keyboard. Well, I
happened to have an old PC keyboard
lying around in my closet, so I tried
to connect it... but the connector was
of the wrong type. So I had to buy a
keyboard adaptor for $10. OK, now it
worked. But the keyboard magically
slowed down the computer with about
90%! Furthermore, it was impossible to
use the mouse buttons when the
keyboard was connected.

I've never experienced an error like
this, and I've been working with
customer-support... Well, the computer
was useless with this keyboard, it was
probably short-circuited in some very
weird way, so I threw it away and
borrowed one from my friend. He also
had some old ethernet-cards he didn't
need, so I took one. I had plans to
bring this computer to »CL1:The Party», you
see. Well, home with the netcard. Down
with it in an unused port. Boot the
computer... »CL1:"new hardware found"»,
that's right, and it even was
correctly identified. But it didn't
work (surprise!). The computer
wouldn't accept to assign the card to
any other memory area than the default
one, and this area didn't even exist.
It would have existed if I had 28 Gb
of memory in the computer, and sadly
enough I didn't...

With a disappointed roar I once again
disassembled the computer and ripped
out the non-working card. OK, reboot
the shit-computer again. Now a new
icon suddenly appeared on the
»CL1:"workbench"», the network icon. Looks
like I forgot to de-install the
netcard. OK, that's a quick operation.
Just enter the system setup, and away
with the card. OK. Reboot. And what
happens? »CL1:"New hardware found"»!!! The
damned card is still there! But it
really isn't! I just happen to be
looking at it lying at the table next
to the computer! And there's not even
a question, just a blaring »CL1:"installing
network drivers"» message. I must have
tried to remove the card from the
setup and restart the computer 20
times or something, but every time it
detected the nonexistent card. Totally
unexplainable. I've never heard of
such an error - and still I've worked
with customer support. 

Well, the worst part is yet to come.
Irritated, I let the computer think
that there was a netcard, at least for
the moment. After all, it didn't
disturb my other work in any way...  
...or so I thought. Shortly thereafter
I had to copy some files from the
»CL1:Amiga» to the »CL1:PC». OK, a disk in the
drive, click on »CL1:"A:"»... »CL1:"drive not
ready"». What? Why? I checked out »CL1:"This
computer"»... and there it said: Drive
A:, 5.25-inch disk. »CL1:5.25 inch»? Wasn't
that 3.5 inches a minute ago? How is
that possible? I must have altered it
by mistake while tampering with the
netcard. Yes, that must be the
explanation. Quickly entered the setup
again... but it was impossible to
choose the 3.5-inch disk. Well, I
removed the driver and let the
computer search for it by itself. »CL1:"New
hardware found"». No shit, ya dumb
computer.... And this »CL1:"new hardware"»
was... a »CL1:5.25»-inch drive!!!

Time for a nervous breakdown.
10..9..8..7..6..5..4..3..2..1..
»CL9:booooooooooom!!!»
I furiously tried EVERYTHING for an
hour or so, but no, it was hopeless:
the drive had magically transformed
into a »CL1:5.25-inch-drive». And it
couldn't be accessed, since the
hardware didn't correspond to what
Windows claimed it to be. I got even
madder and fetched my PC-oriented
friend. He brought his internal drive,
and we tried it. No difference. No
error in the drive. We again tried all
the things I'd been trying on my own,
but no difference. I've never heard of
such an error, and still I've been
working with customer support. There
was many strange errors in those days,
but this takes the prize. We checked
out the »CL1:BIOS», but the settings were
correct - drive A: was a 3.5-inch
drive. We tried to boot from A: with a
startdisk, but the computer didn't
even look at the disk. Checked the
BIOS again, and the boot sequence was
correct - first A:, then C:. "Well",
my friend said, »CL1:"this error will be a
classic one. We can only re-install
Windows and hope for the best"». So he
fetched the install CD, and we got to
work. But the installation program
refused to install Windows over an
existing version. Well, that's not a
big problem. I jumped out to »CL1:DOS» and
deleted it all.

Now the installation actually worked!
Now we only had to reboot again, and
it would work. I crossed my fingers
and hit the vulcan nerve-pinch...
»CL1:"Starting Windows 95"». »CL9:Hooray!» There's
the ugly picture with the clouds. But
suddenly... »CL1:"This version of Windows
cannot be run with DOS 7.0 or higher"».
WHAAAAAAT??? The DOS is TOO NEW?!
Agk... argh... Now I was ready to
throw the computer out the window, but
my friend told me that we simply would
format the HD and copy his Windows-dir
to it. For the 10th time that day we
ran down to his place. Fortunately it
was no problem to format'n'copy, so we
soon were back at my place, and
re-installed the drive into my behexed
computer. We booted it... and it
worked! Well, not really.

Windows still considered the disk
drive to be a 5.25-inch one... »CL1:"This
MUST be a hardware error!"» I yelled,
and my friend yelled back: »CL1:"It just
CAN'T BE! The BIOS would have reported
it!"». I agreed. Then we had only one
thing left to try - clear the BIOS
settings, whatever good that would do.
It was very improbable that it would
help, but now we were really
desperate. Somewhere in the computer,
Windows stored faulty information
about the drive, and if it wasn't on
the HD, it must be in the BIOS
data.

OK, reboot and jump into the bootmenu.
Clear BIOS and reboot. Now the
computer wouldn't even start. Back
into the bootmenu. We checked and
altered every little setting, and when
we finally were done, it pretty much
looked like before we had cleared it.
Well, one last reboot... hey, it
works! »CL1:Windows» was loading... OK! I
checked out »CL1:"This computer"» and...
WOW! »CL1:"Drive A:», »CL1:3.5-inch disk"». It
worked! It couldn't work, but it did.

Now I was happy again, but it didn't
last very long. A glance down the list
of attached units, and... but, where's
the CD? Oh noo, this can't be
happening!! The CD is gone! But why?
The so-called Plug'n'play system must
have missed it when we re-installed
the HD. OK, so search for it, then.
»CL1:"New hardware found"». A Mitsumi CD, so
far it's right. But there was only 3
available device drivers - one for
"old" single-speed drives, one for
"new" single-speed drives, and one for
double-speed drives. And this happened
to be an astonishing quad-speed drive.
Tried out the 2x-driver, but of course
it didn't work. The only effect it had
was bringing the computer to believe
that there was some kind of error on
the general IDE connector - »CL1:Windows»
thought it had something to do with
the HD instead of the CD, but this
didn't surprise me one bit after
everything that had happened. 

So now I again have a working disk
drive, but it left me with a useless
CD. I've never before heard of such an
error, and still I've worked with...
...well, I guess you know by now...
And I think you all can imagine the
relief I felt when I returned to my
»CL1:trusty Amiga». If you happen to have an
win95 install-disk for a Mitsumi 4x
CD, please contact me! My addy should
be in the adverts part. Or email:
»CL1:coma_3le@usa.net».

Epilogue: The computer still detects
the nonexistent Ethernet card at every
startup, and every time I remove it
again. It has become something of a
habit. 