»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
              »CL8:»BIG:Editorial
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:I have to admit -
it's getting better -
it's getting better all the time.

»CL0:Come to think of it, it's impressive
that the support has been steadily
growing for this chart, since »CL1:December
1996». Due to my steadily growing
wasting of time on the internet in the
daily hours, I've been more and more
convinced that this idea of a
diskmagazine/chart was on it's way
down. Fact is, you've proved me wrong:
Again! And I like it. It's hard work -
at least in a couple of days/weeks
around the release - to be one of the
maineditors of the chart, but me and
the 6.900 lines of sourcecode written
by Quedax/Depth have become quite good
friends during the last one and a half
years. And I guess that I've also made
some nice friends out there in the big
world of the scene. Is this getting a
little bit selfcentered? heh.. I
guess. I just felt like sitting here
in the middle of the night after the
third day in a row working 10-13
hours, returning home, cooking,
charting, sleeping »CL1:[repeat twice]», and
writing a long editorial for once.
Quite frankly, I've been more or less
scene-inactive for the last six
months. I'm your humble slave around
the releasedate, and then I'm resting.
Curt Cool is the main thing that
things are still running so smooth
with this chart. I wonder, if he's got
a life ;-) ... Still - I feel that I
know my way about the scene - it's
really simple. Productions keep coming
more and more rapidly. Only due to
massive influence from the ever-more
globalizing network, we're left to
think that we're dying. Admittedly,
the scene was bigger once. But at that
time, I would have been considered
extremely active, if I had been doing
what I am know. The coding skills I
have would have made me among the best
in Denmark, the music skills I posses
would have made me known. And I'm
noting. Dear audience: We're getting
better - all the time. The scene has
only lost it's audience that always
cared more for games anyway. That's
not a loss in my opinion.
A funny thing, I come to think of know
and then is that a lot of the old
elite people of the scene are actually
still alive IRL today, and where are
they? They are in control, I tell you.
I dare say that we are an invalueable
fundament of all
computer/graphics/programming made
around the world today. We made it
happen, and we're making it happen. I
have got a feeling that far too many
sceners of today are so pessimistic,
they loose the picture: »CL1:We're in
control! We are all prodigys» (some
more than others - naturally :-) ). Of
course it's very positive that this
hopelessness ha been turned into
friendliness, that we lacked once. A
party like »CL1:Symposium» is one that I
look forward to already in April, when
it's just ended. This atmosphere is
good, but should not let us into
thinking that we're just a bunch of no
good people that like to booze a bit
and then occasionally once in a while
make a new 3d-engine, trace something
fancy, or compose yet another
harmonic/beatblasting module. These
qualities are so bloddy rare. Open
your eyes! I'd advice all of you to
look in the mirror at least once a
day. Look into your eyes and say to
yourselves: »CL1:"I am fucking bright. I'm
a genious. So fuck all of you ignorant
bastards that don't even know the
difference between a serial and
parallel port."» It works for me
anyway!
Heh... The amount of parties today
really astonish me as well. How the
hell do we sceners manage to throw
that many parties? We just keep on
going strong. Especially the Polish
people are really doing something
about it. Admittedly, in Denmark
there's not much left except this big
thing formerly known as The Party -
The End of an Era .. Idiots! Nothing
ever ends. It just keeps on getting
better - like us. New party
initiatives are being made, also in
Denmark. And with success, in my
opinion. The latest success is the
Scene Meeting held by IRIS in
whichever location they are able to
find for free. Denmark is luckily that
small that the distance to the party
from event to event doesn't change
rapidly for that reason. Partying
never dies - neither do we!
Happy partying!            »CL1:  -Cytron
»PIC:Wade1.iff»


















»CL0:It's autumn, the leaves are brown and
fall to cover the ground. The time of
»CL1:Christmas» and »CL1:The Party» is with us
once again, and our guess is that
plenty of sceners are working like
busy little beavers to make
productions for The Party already. Who
will win this year? Will we see
another astounding, earthshattering,
fantastic, original production, or
will it just be one vectorworld upon
another? Only time can tell but here
at the »CL1:Eurochart» staff we are of
course hoping for something special -
and we have reason to believe that we
will get it...

»CL1:Eurochart 35» - delayed, but...
We are back. A time of change for both
Eurochart editors, yes, »CL1:Curt Cool»
have, as some of you may know, 
recently begun his studies at the 
university of »CL1:Odense», DK, studying
Danish/Nordic language and literature,
thus settling in a wholly new city,
doing something new, living a new life
(»CL1:with just as much booze as the old
one -ed.»).
And »CL1:Cytron» is in practice as an
engineer at a major Danish laboratory,
thus having moved home to his father,
and has been having some annoying
trouble with his 120Mb hard drive
(which is the only one he owns!).
But no, these are »CL9:not» the reasons for
this delay - nope, the reason is that
we were unable to get the »CL1:graphics» for
»CL1:Eurochart #35» from »CL1:Visual»/»CL1:Nah-Kolor» as
we were supposed to, and that we had 
to organize a new title picture - and
»CL1:Cytron»'s hardware problems also play a
minor roll.

Anyway, enjoy this piece of work, 
enjoy the scene, and most importantly,
don't let the rain, the cold and the
autumn colours get to you - and if
they do, read some more, and you'll
most probably feel better. »CL1:-Curt Cool» 