»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
    »CL8:»BIG:Assembly'98 - party report
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:         By The Hooligan/DCS

»CL0:On »CL1:7.-9.8.1998» was held another
episode in »CL1:Assembly» saga. How was it
this year? We have used to see lots of
surprises winning the demo or intro
compos...groups like »CL1:Parallax», »CL1:Pygmy
Projects» and »CL1:Nerve Axis» just to
mention few. My trip started by train
from my hometown and the trip takes
about an hour and half. A small kid
was playing with a toycellular which
made some horrible and loud
noises...this activity lasted the god
damn whole trip making me mad. Anyway,
I controlled myself and didn't throw
the kid out of the train. 
I arrived to the partyplace at 7pm so
the hall was pretty crowded by then. I
found few friends of mine, left my
gear with them and started a tour
across the partyhall. I wasn't
spotting much Amigas which made me
worried about the whole party but
luckily It didn't mean there were no
Amigians around. Oh no. I was just in
wrong place! I found lots of them from
Boozembly, the infamous shadow party
which started three years ago. I
didn't stay there for long as I had to
deliver my module to the compo,
besides, there was plenty of time for
boozing later. I got back to the party
place and did practically nothing...I
just waited for the »CL1:C64» compos to
begin... 
»CL9:C64 compos»
First there was the graphics compo
which was stunning! Some of those
pictures could have been scanned or
painted on other machines and then
import them to C64 via link, but I'm
sure i'm wrong and all the pictures
were handpainted using Koala or
whatever ;-)
The second compo was the music
competition which had only few tunes
but the quality was once again
amazing. A couple of songs were a very
good of quality. My favourite was
»CL1:"Tribute2Sinatra"», a SID conversion of
the title of the famous tv-series
'Married with childres'....great
stuff.
And then to the mainthing: »CL1:demo compo».
Well, my expectations were high as I
was told there'd be at least two great
demos to be seen. The first demo was a
short, crappy basic-creation. The
second was a bit better than the first
one, still nothing flashy. The third
demo started to look something,
gourauds and shit...so the next demo
will be a killer I thougt. I thought
wrong, that was the third and the last
entry, which made the whole compo a
huge disappointment. Hopefully next
year we get to see more »CL1:C64 demos», and
preferably a bit better too...

»CL9:PC compos»
First there was »CL1:PC 4kb intro» compo
which I didn't attend as I had
something else to do at »CL1:Boozembly» :) I
saw the »CL1:64k intro compo» however.
Another disappointment. We have used
to see some very fine 64k intros from
PC platform but this year was
different. All the entries were of
mediocre quality and it was even a bit
of hard to chooce what to vote.
The »CL1:PC demo compo» had some good and
detailed demos. Even one with a whole
new idea and concept, something we all
have died to see some time now.
»CL1:Hannu&Kerttu 2000» was a demo which
should have won the compo but came
second. It was an old childrens fairy
tale presented as an cartoon
animation, except it wasn't an
animation, but a demo consisting of
some funny realtime calculated vector-
and phong objects with moving camera
and fully spoken dialogs (in
finnish...:) A great demo indeed.
The winning demo from »CL1:Trauma» was the
only one with decent design and very
detailed routines. It had some very
nice 3d objects, pretty pictures, a 3d
scene as in »CL1:Wipeout» on »CL1:PlayStation» and
a catchy music. Still, it didn't show
any new ideas and should have come
second just because of that. All in
all the demo compo was very good and
showed what can be done on a modern PC
today. »PIC:Judas2.iff»










»CL9:Amiga compos»
Now these are the ones you've been
waiting for so let's go. There were
intro and demo-compos, first the »CL1:intro
compo». There were »CL1:8 intros» on show.
There would have been ten or eleven,
but the organizers lost two or three
of them! I saw one of the missing
intros, the one from »CL1:Extend», coded by
Opal and I'm pretty sure it would have
placed in top three! Those bastards...
Some very fine intros was released.
The ones from »CL1:Haujobb», »CL1:Scoopex» and
»CL1:Sonik» (And of course the
megahypernicecool intro from »CL1:DCS» ;-)
were exceptionally good. The others
were ok but these three groups really
had something to show. »CL1:Haujobb» had a
very nice intro featuring some
lighting effects and a snappy
aggressive music by my dear groupmate
»CL1:Muffler». »CL1:Scoopex» had once again an
intro with 3d scenes which people
still seems to like, the only surpise
here is that it wasn't called »CL1:'Zero-G
x'»... »CL1:Sonik» had a short intro with no
real killer effects but the relaxing
hiphop tune made it a success, placing
it third. All in all the Amiga intros
were better than the PC's
ones...perhaps there was no fabulous
effects but at least they had some
great designs.
The demo compo was also of very high
quality. When I came to the partyhall
and »CL1:Schlott»/»CL1:Nerve Axis» walked towards
me I knew he didn't come all the way
from »CL1:Great Britain» to »CL1:Finland» just to
catch the partyfeeling. And I was
right. »CL1:NVX» just didn't have a demo
better than average, they had a »CL1:killer»
one! This is demo is something which
the audience loved, great music by
»CL1:Ganja», expressly designed for the
demo. It had a storyline, great 3d
scenes with terrific textures and one
killer effect: the effect which had a
fire sweeping across the city
exploding buildings like in a
blockbuster movie, by the way, it was
the ONLY effect which made the
audience to applause, and I don't just
mean the Amiga compo, I mean in any of
the competitions! Of course you need
an '060 (preferably overclocked to
66mhz or 80mhz) to enjoy it but this
must be the one of the flagships of
demos for Amiga, together with »CL1:MC»'s
»CL1:'Rise'» and »CL1:Andromeda»'s »CL1:'Nexus 7'».
The demo placed second was »CL1:Embassy»'s
contribution with also some heavy 3d
scenes and fucking amazing lighting
effects. And as we all remember they
had already released a great demo at
»CL1:Motorola Inside'98» few weeks earlier
so »CL1:Sly» and »CL1:Humanoid» haves been busy!
Fantastic work... The demo coming
third was »CL1:Network»'s »CL1:'Synthesis'». I saw
a preview of it months earlier so I
knew what to expect. It's a pretty
long demo with fast and polished
routines, only lacking in music
department. This was their first major
demo and a fine demo it is too.
Without the »CL1:Nerve Axis»' great demo it
could have been other way around,
»CL1:Network» first and »CL1:Embassy» second but
hey, that's life. I must say that this
demo is VERY unstable, it runs on 030
every 10 ten times when run, and on my
040/ppc it does run only for few
seconds. I'm waiting for the fixed
version...

    »PIC:Zack4.iff»















There were of course lots of other
compos too but let's not get too much
detailed with them. All I wanna say is
that the graphics compo was the best
in terms of quality, than any other
party ever held. The music competition
was dull, full of songs that sounded
like copies of eachother. And by the
way, the jury didn't find »CL1:any» of the
delivered 4 channel modules worth
including to the finals!
There were also many other excellent
songs with background vocals and
majestic sounds but somehow the jury
disregarded them too. I really don't
know who was the team selecting the
mods but my quess is that there were
too many people with entries
themselves, wanting their own modules
to the compo. But buy the »CL1:Asm'98»
cd-rom which will have all the other
modules included too, and judge
yourself...
Wild compo had also some damn fine
productions which made the people
laugh and cheered them up. Lot's of
gore and funny ideas. For the first
time in a long time I enjoyed watching
wild demos...in my opinion after
»CL1:Infect»'s »CL1:'Dataworld 2'» there hasn't
been much wild-demos worth
watching...
Animation compo had probably the best
offerings. These pieces of work were
like sequences from todays
scifi/action movies. These raytracings
had something which even »CL1:Industrial
Lights&Magic» could be interested in!
What can I say...great talents. 
What about the atmosphere? Well, there
was quite a lot underaged dudes
playing »CL1:Quake» and »CL1:Unreal» but I quess
that anavoidable: as we all know, this
event hasn't got much to do with the
demoscene anymore. It is a happening
where most of the people come to play
games and surf the net. Before I close
the file I'll just mention few funny
things I spotted during the
»CL1:Assembly'98»...

»CL1:-» Boozembly was better in terms of
  atmosphere.
»CL1:-» Amiga demo winner caught more points
  than the PC's one!
»CL1:-» I saw two CyberVisionPPC's at the
  place: they really exist!!! ;-)
»CL1:-» Sleeping in organizers area was much
  more satisfying than sleeping in the
  noisy partyhall: soft floor and
  silenced walls...ahhh!
»CL1:-» Three totally broken PC's by spilled
  coffee/coca cola.

and the quote of the party:
»CL1:"ok, he is a bit weird, a lot
actually, but he has done his part of
organizing very well" »
                     - »CL1:Deflektor»/»CL1:Sonik»
     (about a certain Amiga organizer)


In the end I wanna say hi's to the
people I met at the party:
»CL1:Zer0-x», »CL1:Opal», »CL1:Leper», »CL1:Thain», »CL1:Thoron»,
»CL1:Seven», »CL1:Slipper», »CL1:Safe», »CL1:Karpow»,
»CL1:Grendell», »CL1:AMJ», »CL1:Carkki», »CL1:Maxwell», »CL1:Bee»,
»CL1:Ganja», »CL1:Adam»
and all the rest I don't remember! 