»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
        »BIG:»CL8: The first PPC demo
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            By Bucko/Depth

»CL0:At the high powered end of the demo
scene the first proper PPC demo has
finally arrived! True, »CL1:Venus Art»
bought us »CL1:Everything Dies PPC» and
»CL1:Ghost in the Machine PPC», but these
demos were 68k ports and also had the
disadvantage of not working for most
people (myself included). »CL1:Absolon» by
»CL1:Venus Art» and »CL1:Mad Wizards» requires a
PPC proceressor AGA and 32mb of fast
RAM. It's written in Phase 5 standard
rather than WarpOS so all PPC users
should be able to run it no problem so
long as they meet the other system
requirements.
»CL1:But is it any good?» The demo opens
with a spinning raytraced planet which
is a reasonable effect but nothing
special. A few words are flashed up on
the screen and Then after this we are
greeted with the first of many
raytraced 3D scenes. The 3D moves very
quickly and you'll soon notice the
difference if you are used to an 030
or similar. Inbetween the 3d scenes
there are some great hi-res pictures
drawn by »CL1:Fame», »CL1:Grass» and »CL1:Insane», just
to stop you getting bored of more 3D
objects. By far the best effect is a
viking longboat tht sails down a
lovely textured canal. the 3D here is
impressive and runs really smoothly,
this effect alone was where you could
really tell the power that the PPC was
delivering to the Amiga. There's also
a nice 8 channel module by »CL1:Vagon»
playing through the demo. The demo's
final effect is also impressive,
several gigantic cog weels rotating
inside a textured dome, all running
really smoothly, of course. »CL1:Absolon»
supports AHI so all you lucky sound
card owners can enjoy true 16 bit
quality, the Demo can also be run in
higher resolutions although these are
likely to be of more interest to
graphics card users since even if you
put the starship enterprises computer
inside your A1200 you still could not
get any kind of speed out of AGA in
high res modes (by Hi-res I'm talking
productivity and DblPAL). Overall this
is a nice demo but by no means a
classic. It was placed Third at »CL1:Grav
98» which may seem impressive enough
but there was unfortunatley only 3
entries into the amiga megademo
competition! It will take more than
this to sell more PPC cards, I don't
regret buying mine but I have to say I
was particually dissapointed with the
lack of PPC demos. Hopefully after
this production we will begin to see
some really great things comming for
PPC equipped Amigas. 