»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
        »BIG:»CL8:No musicians left?
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:          by Coma of Mantra

»CL0:It's happened several times the last
year: I load up a fresh mag - ah, nice
intro picture - and then the music
begins... after a minute I think
»CL1:"No... it can't be this bad! Not in
this mag!"» and I give it one more
chance... but after a minute more I
just get annoyed and start clicking
around for the help article to find
out which key I can press to get rid
of the damned noise. I don't say that
ALL of today's mag music sucks, but an
abnormously large part of it does! We
are talking about music that would


»PIC:Judas1.iff»



                    never - never! -
                    have come in
                    question for
                    serious usage some
                    years ago, when
                    quality musicians
                    still roamed
                    around the scene.
                    If the mag
                    producers don't
                    put any demands on
                    the mag musicians,
                    who should do it? 

Yes, it's another of those »CL0:"the
alarming state of our scene"» articles.
This time it concerns the music in
general, and mag music in particular.
This may come as a surprise to you,
but the scene, in general, lacks
musicians! But, you say, what is this
dude raving about? There's a lot of
people making music, isn't there? Yes
- undeniably, but there is a
difference. There is a lot of people
making music, but how many of them
could really qualify as "musicians",
even with very moderate standards?
Nowadays it seems like anyone capable
of loading »CL0:Protracker» wants to call
himself a musician. Now you are
probably waiting for the big list o'
names, but sorry; there won't be any.
After all, I'd like to survive my trip
to »CL0:The Party» this year. =)

But don't worry, you won't need any
list, all you have to do to see what I
mean is loading a few of the latest
mags. They all have 3-4 tunes
nowadays, but it doesn't help. None of
the modules will probably be worth
listening to anyway. Where are the
strong melodies? The powerful
harmonies? Sure, I don't say anything
about music styles which per
definition do not contain such things
as melody and harmony (think Muffler)
- even though it probably is easier to
choose a style which only requires
"cool" samples (the "boost" button in
PT could be renamed to the "become
popular" button in the next version).
But that is a matter of style, which
is off-topic. As long as there's
quality, I'm happy - I actually like
Muffler's music, in case you wondered,
even though I question him being
compared to the legendary musicians.

So, there's the problem - we are
overflowed with modules (and wannabe
musicians), but the majority of them
simply lacks quality. If you're not
convinced, then I ask you to mention
10 really good module makers. I dare
say that at least 7 or 8 of them left
the scene years ago! Remember »CL0:Firefox»,
»CL0:Tip» and »CL0:Mantronix»? How about
»CL0:Lizardking»? »CL0:Heatbeat»? »CL0:Mr.Man»? »CL0:Archon»,
»CL0:Audiomonster», »CL0:Delorean»? »CL0:Jogeir»?
»CL0:Merge(Laxity)»? »CL0:Dizzy» and
»CL0:Spaceman(Nuke)»? I could go on for
ages. We have very few musicians today
who can replace these legends. Hell,
all you have to do is looking at a
musicians' chart. Last time I looked
at one, Jogeir topped it. Many other
of the mentioned names showed up as
well. If the scene had better
musicians today, people wouldn't have
to vote for ex-sceners, would they?

OK. Let's talk reasons. When the
damned PC-scene emerged seriously in
94-95, musicians were the first ones
to escape over to the far side. The
hunger for more channels became too
much for them, although many of them
had proven that 4 channels are enough
to produce great music. Well, it's a
shame, and it left us with a lot of
sub-standard musicians, yet some
undoubtedly on their way up. And not
much have changed since then. We still
have a limited bunch of really good
musicians, and masses of wannabes. Now
this presents a problem for mag
makers, for example. In order to get
modules for their productions, they
have to lower their demands of
quality. And they sure have. Hey, mag
producers, don't you dare to reject
modules? Why do you accept anything?
Perhaps we have a too friendly scene
nowadays? Well, there is no hostility
in "thanks for contributing with a
module, but it's not up to the
standard of our mag, please try
again", is there? It would force the
musician to become better, or go to a
less quality-demanding publication.
And most rightfully so. It must be an
honor to get a module played in, say,
the »CL0:Eurochart»! Or any other mag of
quality!


    »PIC:Acid.208x98x5.iff»















What I've said applies not only to
mags, but that's where the trend is
most visible. Of course, we have the
competitions as well... as an
experiment; get all the modules from
»CL0:TP2» or »CL0:TP3» and compare them to the
modules of »CL0:TP6» or »CL0:TP7»... enough said.
Well, I don't know about you others,
but I'm sick and tired of confused
solos for their own sake, horrible
chord-sequences, ripped sample-setups,
right-down stealing (»CL0:Spiff»: How about
your »CL0:"Digital Boy"» and »CL0:Lizardking»'s
»CL0:"Longstabben"»? Only one of many
examples!) and worst of all; false
notes! If you have no ear for music,
then please go and draw ascii or start
swapping or any other undemanding
profession! (The last bit was a joke,
but I don't feel like putting a smiley
here!)

As always: quality rules over
quantity! Whether you're on the
producing or requesting side of
modules, please think about it! And if
you think I'm wrong, please do write a
response article and share your
opinions!