»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
   »BIG:»CL8: Yet another reply to Kollaps
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL5:       By Id/Vertical Syndicate

»CL0:I'd like to react on Kollaps's article
in »CL1:EC 34» (Hysteria - are votes fair?).
For those who don't remember or didn't
read it at all, I'm gonna point out
what it all was about.
»CL1:Kollaps»/»CL1:Instinct» was moaning about the
votes. In his opinion votes are not
fair. Actually, there are two
statements mentioned in his article.
The first one depicts the typical
situation when there's a famous pair
of sceners. Oh yeah, we all know the
situation when filling in the charts
and don't exactly know whether to put
»CL1:Yolk» first and »CL1:Legend» second or »CL1:Juliet»
first and »CL1:Case» behind him. Yep, this
thing quite sux and those who don't
know both of the pair personally can't
ever judge. Erm, and sometimes the two
even turn out to be one. ;)

But the second idea mentioned by
»CL1:Kollaps» ain't allright at all. Showing
his coder's ego he urges us to vote
the way many coders do. And that is to
forget about design and focus on the
coded side of the demo. What really
made me sick was this part of his
moral lecture:

»CL1:"So voters, try not to be carried away
because of nice looking textures or
athmospheric design and music. Code is
code and if you are in doubt whether a
routine is hard or not, then do not
vote at that demo/person/group."»

»CL9:HEY MAN!» You must've gone completely
crazy!! You wanna tell us that if
anybody doesn't understand the routine
and the way the certain effect is
coded, he shouldn't vote at all?! Hah,
you really think that the most
important in a demo is how many pixels
are being moved and what mathematic
axiom is being proved in practice??
It is not so important whether the
mirror is »CL1:ENV», »CL1:fake-feedback» or »CL1:real
mirror» calculation. It is just your
opinion as a coder. But what about us,
poor mortals? I, as a graphician,
could shout at the crowds: »CL1:"Look! That
guy uses wrong and absolutely
unsuitable dithering! And there! The
picture is just about one lewd effect
only. This is the effect you apply the
first time you enter DPaint!!"» But
people who don't sit before DPaint all
the day and don't know it's hidden
qualities like the picture and vote
even for a crap. And if you've never
done some graphics you may be one of
them! Lame!
      »PIC:Acid.192x88x5.iff»










And what about music? »CL1:"Heeey, the
samples are ripped! There is no proper
effect in the whole crap-mod... and
the clickin, jeeez!!"» But people like
it as it's easy to listen to and they
can easily remember the melody. Ofcoz
that certain technical quality should
be valued but you cannot see it this
black and white. A demo is a
composition of graphics, music and
coded effects which all together are
to give a well designed whole. And to
be fancied by anybody, the whole
should be impressive even without the
knowledge of coding, pixelling or
tracking problematics. Cos nobody
can't appropriately judge all aspects
of any such production.  You and
anybody else ain't any worse for a bit
of toleration! That is. 
