»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
  »BIG:»CL8:PPC - Perhaps the future but...
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:             By Curt Cool

»CL0:Plenty of people seem to be raving
about it. The »CL1:PPC processors» are
taking over what is left of the Amiga
platform, and several prominent
democoders are going PPC. »CL1:Venus Art»,
»CL1:Ephidrena», »CL1:Capsule», »CL1:Nah-Kolor» & »CL1:Elven
11» just to name a few groups whose
coders have gone, or announced that
they will produce demos for the »CL1:PPC
based Amigas only».

But how many sceners actually have a
PPC accelerator in their Amiga?
If we look at the charts in this very
diskmagazine, the most popular demos
are the ones which work and run at a
decent rate utilizing a mere 020-030
processor (also commonly used in
washing machines these days) - and
the simple reason for this must be
that today, most sceners haven't
bothered upgrading their Amigas to PPC
or even 060 - but obviously, looking
at the latest demos, the coders have
upgraded a long time ago - and looking
at the people I know in the scene
(quite a few I think), this statement
holds water - the coders have bigger
and better accelerators than the
graphicians and musicians (if these
haven't already bought a damn'
peecee...).


This means that there is a gap between
and everyone else on the scene - after
all you don't need a PPC machine to 
run »CL1:ProTracker» or even »CL1:DigiBooster» or 
»CL1:OctaMed Soundstudio» - and I doubt that
»CL1:ProTracker» would even run on a »CL1:PPC
machine». And »CL1:DPaint», »CL1:Brilliance» &
»CL1:Personal Paint» works fine on a
slightly expanded A1200 - and besides,
most scene graphicians today have a PC
running »CL1:PhotoShop» standing next to
their A1200 - and that's a fact.

This draws us to the conclusion that 
it is in fact the coders who are 
trying to create a revolution similar
to the one that came when everyone 
upgraded their A500 to A1200, and 
again, when everyone bought at least
some fastmem and perhaps a faster 
processor for it. 
But not that many people are following
them, and that is a problem - for
them, and for the scene as a whole -
because today, most people still only
have a 030 with some mb's of fastmem
and perhaps an FPU - the charts show
that very clearly.
     »PIC:Acid.208x98x5.iff»











The problem is that the PPC coders are
doing hard work creating demos no one
are able to watch, thereby getting
very little response, and loosing
motivation. And as most sceners are
not able to watch the demos, perhaps
some might even loose their motivation
themselves.

Over the last half a year we have seen
more and more productions requiring
bigger and bigger hardware - I might
as well ask the question and take the
blame: Haven't coders got any guts at
all? It was only at »CL1:The Party 7» 060
became the standard, and still, at
that party there was only one demo
which actually required a 060 to run
properly (»CL1:Killer» by »CL1:CNCD» if you didn't
know). 
Obviously we are afraid of loosing
all ground to the PC demos (which have
already happened a long time ago,
though not making PC demos all that
much more interesting). And obviously,
the powers of invention have been
thrown in the bin to be replaced by
power of making bigger and more
processor-requiring vector-engines,
thus loosing the spirit of the classic
demoscene which was more about doing
things in the smartest way on one
machine (A500/0.5MB FakeFast :), thus
making the routine faster and more
impressive - which is indeed a kind of
invention. I'm not saying that it is
easy to make a vectorengine, because
it most certainly isn't, but watching
the Nth demo using one which looks the
same as the one before isn't all that
exciting.

Well, I'll end this article with a
statement from my groupmate and oldest
friend, »CL1:Gizmoduck»/»CL1:Depth», who, after
watching »CL1:'Relic'» (which I think is
great) on my 030/50, stated:

»CL2:'I can't understand why these coders
bother to stick with the Amiga in
favour of the PC - obviously it is
processor power they are after, and
they can get that a lot cheaper on the
PC - I mean, the chip on the
»CL3:CyberGraphics» cards is the one you can
get on the cheapest PC graphics cards
today, and 060 is just too slow
compared to a Pentium 2 - no, in my
book, »CL3:Desert Dream» (by »CL3:Kefrens») is
still the best demo ever - it had
style, invention, humour and timing,
and most importantly, everything was
running one frame on a mere A500.
Guess the c64 scene is a lot cooler
than the Amiga scene these days - at
least they don't need to buy new and
expensive accelerators all the time'

»CL0:As some you might have guessed,
»CL1:Gizmoduck» isn't using his Amiga very
much anymore, yet his statement sums
up a pretty sharp opinion which I
cannot quite disagree with, though I
still prefer the Amiga for its
superior operating system and the
style which luckily still comes to the
surface every now and then.
So perhaps PPC is the future - but in
my book, it is certainly not the
present. 