»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
         »CL8:»BIG: The Secret Scene
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            By Bucko/Depth

»CL0:Ask your average man in the street
about computers and he/she will
probably waffle on about the »CL1:PC»,
»CL1:Windows» and »CL1:the internet». Ask them
about »CL1:Amiga» and fewer people will
remember, but many will. Now, what do
you think would happen if you asked
your average person in the street
about »CL1:the scene»? It's a pretty safe
bet that at least 99 out of 100 people
wouldn't have a clue what it was you
were talking about. Ask most kids what
they think about demos on the »CL1:PC/Amiga»
and most will say, »CL1:"they're okay but
I'd rather just get the full game."» To
beginners and the general public the
scene seems rather secretive and
closed, indeed I owned my »CL1:Amiga» for
three and a half years before I even
realised there was an active UK scene
(yes there was in those days.) 

Part of the problem lies in the nature
of the scene itself, its a non
commercial non profit making entity
and it should always remain so.
Because of this no media giant is ever
going to shout about the latest demos
from »CL1:TBL» or »CL1:TRSI» because there is no
profit in it. However, the factor that
dissuaded me from trying to join the
scene for so long was the image of
elitism it projected to me. Reading
swappers adverts that said 'ultra fast
warez swappin' and '0-3 days warez
only' really put me off getting in
touch with anyone. What could I offer
these people if they were getting
productions Three days after release,
when I was getting them up to three
months after? Also, reading
scrolltexts in demos and admittedly
cracktros the language was always
slagging off lamers and putting down
outsiders, or thats the way it seemed.
All the time on the »CL1:C64» I thought you
would have to be some sort of coding
wizard or amazing artist/musician to
get into any kind of scene activity.
It wasn't until I read »CL1:The Word»
magazine on my »CL1:Amiga» and sent off some
contact letters that I really knew
that the scene was based more on
friendship than elitism. I actually
got three replys from three letters
sent out and was able to swap what I
got with more people until I became
the lazy delayer I am now :). The
point of this article is this, If I
had been a talented musician, coder
graphic artist or, heaven forbid,
article writer, then my contribution
to the scene might have been lost if I
was unaware of how and why to enter it
in the first place. The scene is not
for everybody, some people find demos
really boring and would rather just
play Quake all day but for some it is
a fun and fulfilling passtime. If we
try and lift the veil of secrecy from
the scene a little, perhaps by
drumming up some free publicity from
the likes of the Amiga press or the
new »CL1:Amiga» central web site, then just
maybe we can attract fresh talent to
the scene that will help to keep the
flow of new productions going. Even
new swappers are valuable additons, as
many swappers find new responsiblities
and are unable to swap as quickly as
before. The scene must never become
commercial but it need not be so
underground either. If and when Amiga
II arives I hope that the scene will
continue not just with the hardcore
Amigans but with fresh new people who
do not feel intimidated by the scene. 
