»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL8:»BIG:Dishonest - or incredibly skilled?
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            TrickTrax/IRIS


»CL0:»CL1:Danny» wrote a really long and good
article in »CL1:SceneTime#12» about the
massive copying of other peoples work
that is going on in the scene today.
If you haven't read it yet, you SHOULD
do so if you have any interest in the
subject. He started out with the
graphicsscene and later expanded the
issue to the scene as a whole. Since I
have been in the scene for a looong
time, I have watched the development
and are happy to see somebody (even a
V.I.S) commenting it in a calm and
reasonable way like »CL1:Danny» did, not
just accusing different people of
scanning, copying or whatever. In
fact, he acknowledged the different
ways to make art. Scanning can - as he
pointed out - be art just as well as
pixeled graphics. But regardless of
how much I liked the article from
»CL1:Danny», I still think there are things
to be pointed out. To avoid problems
with understanding: I refer to
scanning as scanning photographs or
other peoples work, not your own. I
refer to pixelgraphicians as people
who draw their art in DPaint or
another pixelprogram.

The real concern on the graphicsscene
is in my opinion not scanning,
redrawing, copying or whatever
technique a graphician use. The
problem is that some graphicians wont
admit that they use these techniques
to create their art. They claim to
have handdrawn pictures that are
CLEARLY scanned, writing "not a copy"
and such on these pictures. They try
to give the impression that they made
it from scratch. How pathetic! How can
anybody want fame so much that they
are willing to cheat and lie to get
it? How can they think that they
deserve respect? The worst part of the
problem is that the scene doesn't seem
to care! The main argument being
'well, it looks good, so who cares if
he claims to have drawn the scan
himself'. I'm sure most hardworking
graphicians care! As an old scener I
simply cannot understand how we - the
scene - can accept this kind of
cheating. When I was in »CL1:Puzzle», we had
a graphician (»CL1:Deone») that scanned some
photographs, put them together and
competed in a pixel-competition with
it, writing 'no copy' on it and
getting ranked fairly high. I was
organizer at the time and even though
I knew he was quite good at drawing, I
kicked him for that!!! It was simply
too lame a thing to do. And why? Well,
I'm not a graphician, but if I was to
spend hours and hours drawing on a
picture it would kill ALL motivation
if I see a scan made in 5 minutes beat
me in a compo. All graphicians ranked
below that »CL1:Puzzle»-graphician in that
competition must have felt cheated and
demotivated. The same with charts
where people are ranked high for their
scans which they claim to be drawings.
I wont mention any names, but I think
most sceners know about the latest
example of a high-ranked
top-graphician who recently was caught
competing in a pixelcompo with a
picture that was a retouched scan.

I'm not trying to say that drawn
graphics are better than other
graphics, just that graphicians should
ADMIT if they scan and retouch, copy
or whatever and NOT claim that they
are drawing it themselves. Then charts
and compos will be more fair, because
voters will know how the graphician
work and can judge the effort and
skill much better. And maybe then the
hardworking pixelgraphicians will get
some of the credit they deserve and
new motivation to improve their
skills.

  »PIC:Wade1.iff»



















The problem is blown out of
proportions, you say? Well, why is it
then, that I have never met a
graphician who would admit to
scanning, even when his pictures are
of EXTREME photolike quality? Is he
dishonest or just incredibly skilled?
Think about it: Were all the
pixelgraphicians before the scanners
appeared really that bad? I mean, not
many - if ANY - of the old legends
made perfect pictures of the standard
some selfclaimed 'pixelgrapicians'
makes today. Don't you find that a bit
strange?





Maybe this is part of the explanation
why there are so few good
pixelgraphicians around. Maybe already
most of the real enthusiasts have -
like »CL1:Danny» - left... BTW: Scans are
only art if you actually DO something
creative with it, instead of just
scanning and blurring edges. THAT IS
TOO FUCKING LAME! 