»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
               »CL8:»BIG:Variety
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:          By Bucko/Void^A51


»CL0:A dragon flys gracefully over a barren
landscape, below him, tiny and fragile
are buildings, small villages, a
lighthouse. Now he is over the sea,
his wings beat steadily as a raincloud
gathers above. Suddenly, without
warning the cloud erupts and a bolt of
thunder hits the dragon, completely
vaporizing it's skin. Its bones fall
to earth. In the distance the moon
gets bigger, as it draws nearer,
suddenly there is a word, several
words, and they read »CL1:"Dutch Breeze -
(C) Blackmail Designs"»

That was not the bizarre opening of a
fantasy novel, but the brilliant
opening to one of my favourite »CL1:C64»
demos, »CL1:Dutch Breeze». The quality of
the demo is excellent throughout,
having some wonderful effects that are
all superbly presented. So what? How
many »CL1:Amiga» demos are designed so well?
On the »CL1:C64» the great demo groups
always concentrated on designing their
demos so that they flowed from part to
part smoothly, too many »CL1:Amiga» demos
lack such careful design. You only
have to look at the popular intro
»CL1:"Second Chance"» by the »CL1:Three Little
Elks». Not exactly a feat of coding
genius but it was very popular, why?
Because people like to be entertained,
and no matter how well you code a
spinning cube, it's still a boring
spinning cube to 98% of the computer
world (including most of the scene).

I am not suggesting that everyone
stops coding and start making
animations instead. What I would like
to see is some thought put into
design. On the »CL1:C64» groups often
included a game, or a menu to choose
the parts of the demo you wanted to
see, not only was this a novel feature
but it also allowed you to skip
quickly to the best part in the demo,
»CL1:Ice Cream Castle» by »CL1:Crest was» one
example, each part of the demo was a
different flavour Ice Cream, or in the
»CL1:Bubble Tale» where you had to navigate
through a maze to find the demo parts.
On the »CL1:Amiga» there was »CL1:Artcore», an
idea I am surprised nobody has
bothered to copy and expand on.

So how about it guys? Look how popular
»CL1:Melon Design» became, it only needs one
group who can stand out and be
different to inject some variety into
the flagging »CL1:Amiga» demo scene. 