»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:         »BIG:Why I love to hate
»SML:         »BIG: composing music
»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL5:          By TrickTrax/IRIS

»CL0:This is a strange article, I know. Who
would ever want to hear about my
problems with tracking. But since I
guess it's a general problem, why not
write an article about it. Maybe a
small one just to get it out of my
system. The darn samples.

The samples are the concern of all
musicians. You have to have the best
samples, they have to be unique and
they must NOT sound too unique so
people will accuse you of stealing
style and ideas from a known artist. I
hate samples! I simply do! Or maybe I
should say 'I hate MY samples'. And
why? Because they don't help me one
bit in making inspiring and beautiful
melodies. They don't give me any space
for improvisation and fun and it feels
like they tie my hands on my back so I
have to use my nose to type in the
notes. Well, to be honest it's not all
samples I hate. It's mostly the really
nice ones. The saxophones, the
trumpets, the guitars, the voice
samples and every chord - they are my
true enemies. And I have lots of them
and continue to make and collect more.
Totally selfdestructive behaviour. You
see, the problem with the saxophones,
the guitars, etc is that they cannot
be moved up and down without starting
»CL0:to sound shitty. If you are lucky, you
can transpose a note or two up and
down, but that's it! It won't go any
further without spoiling the good
sound you/I/we all want from the
samples. And that really spoils the
fun too. My melodies wont go anywhere.
I cannot race up and down the scales
like I used to.

»CL2:You see, today I sat down and listened
to some of my old tunes. The ones with
a simple stringlead, a bass sample,
some drums and 2-3 stringchords. The
sound of the modules were not great,
because of the beforementioned
samples, but the melodies.... The
melodies were better than the ones I
make today, simply because the samples
I use today limits me more than they
help me. I have been drowning myself
in 'real' sounding samples of guitars,
horns, etc etc and somewhere along the
line, I simply stopped transposing to
save the darn samples from sounding
shitty. I stopped changing chords all
the time, and the modules lost some of
the naive joyfulness because of the
restrictions. Todays listening to my
old modules made me sad.....

»CL3:The technoshit.»
Techno like you find it in todays
scene is really a musicians very good
friend. Or at least it pretends to be
- but let me get back to that later.
If you want to you can make a
technomodules really fast (2-3 hours)
and you can use the same samples over
and over again in other technomodules.
»CL2:It's the spirit of techno. Many
repetitions and heavy drum/bass work.
Cut'n'paste, cut'n'paste aaaaaaaaaaand
cut'n'paste. Personally, I make techno
for mainly 2 reasons: »CL3:1)» It's popular!
and »CL3:2)» because I really enjoy making
techno, mostly because I LIKE the
damned genre. The beats, the bass, the
wild strings and screaming vocals. And
I don't have to think about the making
of the module, it just kind of makes
itself. Some of the naive joyfulness
is back when I make techno, so it
would seem like techno was my friend.
It's not! It's a possessive parasite
that takes over your body and brain
everytime you sit infront of your
beloved Amiga. You think »CL3:'Today I'm
going to compose some nice melodic
piece to the girl I love'». 5 minutes
later you have loaded your megadrum
and ravestrings and the neighbours
hammers on the wall to make you turn
down the volume. The technoparasite
has again gained control over you. You
have no patience to make the melody
and over time, you simply forget. You
forget to listen to other music and
you forget how to compose different
music. You simply just follow the path
of the techno, blindfolded and without
listening. In an old letter (january
1996) from a friend he writes:
»CL3:'compared to your songs my tunes lack
originality'». Today, I can write
»CL3:'compared to my old songs my tunes
lack originality'».



»CL0:»CL1:The glorious solution.»
Well, it's obvious, isn't it? There is
of course NO solution to my problems
whatsoever. I will continue to compose
with the impossible samples and make
terrible melodies just to preserve the
holy SOUND of the samples. And since I
cannot remember any longer how
different music CAN sound, I will
continue to make mostly techno
modules. But I will try to do better,
I promise. I cannot instantly return
to point blank but I will try to
rediscover the joys of making music,
both with the heart and the mind. Will
anybody join me? 