»CL9:--------------------------------------
       »CL8:»BIG: Squirrel CDR package
»SML:      »BIG:review for A1200 + SCSI
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            By Bucko/Depth

»CL0:It was not long ago that CD writing,
especially on the Amiga, was reserved
for those with copious amounts of
money and patience. Early CD-Writing
software for the Amiga consisted of a
few thrown together utilities from
Commodore and both media and drives
were expensive. However, as time moved
on things started to change, drives
came down in price, and Asimware gave
us the first really usable piece of
CD-Writing software in the shape of
MasterISO, and it was now that things
began to get interesting.  The demands
that CD burning places on any system
are high, unlike hard or floppy disks,
recordable CD's require a continuous
stream of data to be written to them.
What this means is that you can't
interrupt the writing process and copy
a few files now, then add a few later.
Standard recordable CD's can only be
written to once, and those experienced
in CD burning will tell you that you
should always use an image file that
has been written to your hard disk.
This is a much safer method of writing
CD's and results in a lot less
'costers' (unusable CD's). However
bear in mind that CD image files can
take up to 700mb on your hard disk.
You will also need a hefty chunk of
free fast ram (about 4MB at least) for
a buffer as a safety margin for hard
disk read error. A SCSI interface is
also essential, and for some reason a
standard squirrel doesn't seem to be
up to the job. Upgrade it to a surfer,
however, and you're ready to burn.

      »PIC:Judas2.iff»












If you meet those hardware
requirements you can now go out and
purchase from the innovative Hisoft, a
2x write 6x read CD-Burner for use
with your SCSI equipped A1200. The
asking price for said unit is a mere
£429.95. What's more it even supports
the new re-writable media, but more on
that later. The drive is shipped with
the MakeCD CD-Writing software, now in
it's 3rd revision, MakeCD is getting
better all of the time. Although it
may seem daunting to some, MakeCD is a
powerful piece of kit, it features
online help throughout and now even
ships with a manual which does a
reasonable job of explaining the
basics of the package. Although it is
not the user friendliest piece of
software a reasonably competent Amiga
user can be up and burning CD's within
minutes of installing MakeCD to their
hard Drive. MakeCD supports two types
of writing to CD's, Track at once and
disk at once. Track at once will write
one track, be it audio or data at once
to the CD, this should be adequate for
most people's needs. Disk at once is
an optional extra and costs £20, with
this feature you are granted the power
to exactly change the timing of the
tracks on your CD. And if anybody was
wondering, yes this does make MakeCD
an ideal package for 'backing up' your
console games, but the less said about
that the better.

So the software is good, what about
the hardware? The drive shipped with
the bundle is a Ricoh 26000, it
performed writing and re-writing
operations without any faults when
used with the squirrel and a 4MB
buffer. However, there is a fault with
this drive that may put many people
off. Reading audio tracks from CD's
with the Ricoh is a no-goer. A problem
with the drives firmware means that
any audio tracks you read with the
device will have background crackling,
the effect is somewhat like having a
bowl of rice crispies while listening
to your music. The problem is curable,
simply upgrade the firmware, although
doing so will mean that you have to
swallow your pride and connect the
device to a PC since Ricoh themselves
do not support the Amiga. If you have
another CD rom drive connected to the
Amiga you may be able to use that to
read audio, not all drives are capable
of this however (particularly older
models). In tests a 24 speed ATAPI
drive was used and this performed
faultlessly.
  »PIC:Wade1.iff»














So is it sounding good so far? There
are a few things you should bear in
mind before taking the plunge. If you
are using a squirrel to connect the
drive you will be pushing the device
to its absolute limit. You can forget
about doing anything else with your
computer while making your CD's, the
squirrel will mercilessly hog every
single ounce of computing power from
your Amiga. Also if you are going to
be writing a lot of Audio data be
advised that the squirrel can only
manage to write audio data at single
speed, so be prepared to wait around
for a while. If you use a different
SCSI controller you can of course
ignore all these limitations and even
feel free to invest in a faster four
speed cd writer. The squirrel,
however, cannot cope with the 4 speed
CD burners.

You may remember that I said the
Ricoh supports re-writable CD's.
However this is of limited use at the
moment. Re-writables cost around 10-15
pounds each and all the limitations of
conventional CD writing applies to
them. In a nutshell don't expect to be
having an extra 650mb of random access
storage space, at least not until
someone comes up with some 'packet
writing' software for the Amiga.
Another thing you should remember
about the new re-writable cd's is that
they cannot be read in a lot of CD
drives. Any older devices produced
before the invention of the
re-writable will certainly not
recognise the disks. Their potential
as a backup medium is limited also
since it is not possible to write
directly to the hard disk without
creating an image file first. So if
you wanted to create a backup of a
400MB hard disk partition onto a CD
you would need an additional empty
400MB of hard disk space to store the
image file. This may not, however, be
the case with faster SCSI controllers,
but it is with the squirrel.

Despite the faults the Ricoh has
proved a useful addition to my Amiga
set-up, the shelves of floppy disks
are now gone and in their place is a
single compact disk, a much more
elegant solution. My friend and I have
recently put some of our Amiga music
modules onto compact disk, using
Octamed and MakeCD the process is easy
and the end result can be enjoyed (or
hated!) by almost anyone. The only
real problem is the squirrel, it
really does exhibit its weaknesses
when performing CD writing operations.
If you can tolerate the faults then,
like me, you should find this package
an ideal investment for your CD
burning needs. If your pockets are
deeper, or you have a different SCSI
controller from the squirrel, it may
be more advisable to purchase MakeCD
software separately from Hisoft and
invest in a compatible 4 speed writer.
The choice is yours but whatever you
choose, happy burning.
