»CL7:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL9:»BIG:Dreamcast - End of the Console Age ?
»CL7:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL5:            by Bucko/Depth

»CL1:November 27 1998»CL0: saw the launch of
»CL1:Segas» newest games console, the
»CL1:Dreamcast». Gamers waited overnight
outside top »CL1:Tokyo games stores» to
secure themselves one of the first
units.

This new console has the most polygon
pushing power yet, only owners of
obscenely expensive Voodoo cards need
try and compare their systems.

This is all very well, but what does
it have to do with us, the scene
public? A closer inspection of the
Dreamcasts internals reveals something
rather interesting.

A »CL1:33.6bps Modem», with an optional
keyboard already released. Sega said
that they hope to have a »CL1:56kbps model»
in the »CL1:European Dreamcasts» for when
they are eventually released at the
end of the year. Now, in case you have
not spotted this already, the main
difference between computer and
console (at least externally anyway)
is that consoles don't have keyboards.

Consoles are for kids who want to play
games and nothing else, yet the fact
that »CL1:Sega» is selling »CL1:Dreamcasts» with
keyboards suggests that just maybe,
people are moving away from games
consoles and back to cheap, affordable
home computers. Just like a certain
computer we all admit a certain
fondness towards.

A similar thing happened in the early
80's. Effectively the bottom fell out
of the console market completely. From
the »CL1:Atari» cartridge systems people
began to abandon sprang »CL1:Spectrum» and
»CL1:Commodore» owners.

As the public wants affordable
internet and multimedia, not to
mention the holy grail 'digital
convergence' we may well see another
downfall of the consoles.





    »PIC:Artie2»

















I bought my Amiga to play games. The
games on the Amiga were of a better
content than the consoles that were
around at the time. However as I soon
discovered there is so »CL1:much more» to
the »CL1:Amiga» than games, I got involved
with PD, I loaded up »CL1:workbench» and
discovered »CL1:Deluxe Paint», I saw my
first »CL1:demo» and it reminded me of those
on the »CL1:C64», I joined in on the »CL1:Amiga»
scene, made friends here in the UK and
abroad through swapping.

Perhaps it is hard to find new scene
people today because all the would-be
sceners are playing with their
playstations. Giving fresh people a
creative outlet on new affordable
machines could give the scene, and
maybe the industry a huge productivity
boost. And something else for you to
ponder. If a Games company is
inadvertently selling cheap computers,
how well do you think a big company
like »CL1:Gateway» could do with a cheap
powerful computer that they just
happened to have called 'Amiga'? With
the public getting sick and tired of
high priced and difficult to use PC's
the new millennium is wide open with
possibilities for a new machine.

Let's hope it turns out for the best
and we can all finally use a computer
that's stable and efficient.
