»CL3:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL2:                »BIG:QUEST
»SML:»CL3:--------------------------------------

»CL8:Once upon a time, in a galaxy far, far
away, an epic tale begins to unfold:

Zzarg, the distinguished leader of the
finest Rambosaurus Squad in the 
Federation, was summoned to a secret
meeting with the most powerful being
in the known multiverse, the dreaded
leader of the Galactic Federation, a
force so mighty and mysterious, it was
only known under the name of -CHAOS-,
master of the past, present and future
of the Federation. 

»CL9:While walking up the stairs to the
magnificent palace of CHAOS, Zzarg
both pushed away unfortunate beings
who got in his way and thought about
the reason for his summons. He had
just recently returned to Legend, the
famed planet in the center of the
galaxy and the seat of power from
where all the members of the
Federation commenced their activities.
He'd been infiltrating the ranks of
the evil PeeCeenites, a cruel race of
uncaring monsters bent on the total
annihilation of the Federation and all
that it stood for. His mission had
been a success, as was expected of
him, and the tide of PeeCeenites had
been stemmed. For now atleast, they
conquered no more Federation
territory. Was it because the leader
wanted to express his gratitude, that
he was summoned? Hardly, he thought,
CHAOS never bothered with showing
gratitude, he only wanted things done.
More likely it was to be another
special "High Risk" mission for Zzarg.
Well, that was what he lived for, so
he hoped the eventual mission would
prove to be interesting. However,
there had been a long lasting time of
peace in the Federation, even the evil
PeeCeenites had been silent after his
latest sortie, so he could not think
of any Federation concern worthy of
using the Rambosaurus Squad leader
Zzarg. 

»CL8:The time for THE SYMPOSIUM, a
monumental meeting which had been
repeated for some years now, was
drawing close too, On these universial
meetings, all the various races of the
multiverse got together for somewhat
friendly competition and settlement of
old grudges. In the past, that had
happened at the historical -THE
PARTY-, which was the biggest meeting
of the different races, but more and
more often of late, THE PARTY had
degenerated into a time of senseless
frolicking and weird activities. New
races never seen before had demanded
their right to attend, and were now
undermining the timehonoured
traditions of ages past. Especially
the Quakarians, who had replaced the
slug-like race of Doomklars after a
quick devastating strike on their main
planet, were making trouble with their
incredibly alien and no-sense
activities at THE PARTY. Therefore the
Federation, and various other races,
the most powerful and influential of
the main part of the universe,
preferred to meet on neutral ground on
THE SYMPOSIUM, where they could gather
to discuss ideas, exchange diplomatic
pleasanteries, and show their enemies
who were the stronger race. Zzarg
sighed to himself. His poor Federation
were the ones who tried to uphold the
old traditions and values in an
increasingly hostile multiverse. But
he'd do his part to help the
Federation in any way he could, that
was both his duty and his pleasure
afterall.

»CL7:Later, Zzarg stood face to face with
CHAOS, alone in a big hall consisting
entirely of black marble and swirling
energies. The leader himself was a
being of power, never having the same
form for more than a few seconds,
everlasting energy swirling around him
like a cloud. His was an awesome
presence, and Zzarg quickly found
himself on his reptilian knees before
the mightiest and most famous of all
the beings in the Federation. "Zzark,
I have a new mission for you, which
you might have deduced by now. Stay
silent and listen, for I'll only say
this once: We have an INTERNAL problem
to deal with, and speed is important.
This problem has to be resolved before
THE SYMPOSIUM."

»CL4:"The second oldest race still existing
in our Federation is becoming an
increasing nuisance! It seems like
they're not satisfied with their 1/4
vote in the senate of the Federation
anymore, but are striving for more
power. This cannot be tolerated, who
knows what other loyal races the
so-called SIRIans will destroy in the
process? This is a threat to our
precious balance, so they must be kept
in line. Already, the SIRIans have
stirred up problems in their local
neighbourhood by claiming to be the
true leaders of the region, and
mercilessly slaughtering the second
most important race in their quadrant,
the Puzzlarks. Now the few surviving
Puzzlarks are slaves deep inside the
mines of SIRI Prime it is said, being
pushed beyond their limits in
merciless slavelabour!".»CL6: Also, at THE
PARTY, the SIRIans were beginning to
stir up trouble, the various races got
nervous at seeing them present, and
they acted extremely aggressive, even
DARING to compete with the leading
race of our Federation, the
Pentagram's. Ofcourse they were put
down were they belonged at THE PARTY,
but I'd not underestimate them, I KNOW
they're plotting something this very
instant even!

»CL4:"The smaller races in their galactic
quadrant got afraid because of this,
and feared for their safety and
continued existence. I tried to talk
sense into the current leader of the
SIRIans, a weird alien in a huge metal
armor, but he just wouldn't listen,
he's really quite an arrogant and
powermad being. It was easier in the
old times, when there were other
»CL4:leaders to negotiate with, but this current leader seems completely mad!"
              »PIC:ID1»






































"Therefore, your mission is to
infiltrate what our spies report is
their current seat of influence, a
newly constructed artificial planet in
the Galactic Quadrant DK-5230-O. We
have no more intelligence from the
area, so you'll have to make your own
impressions as you progress. I would
prefer you did something to the
upstarts, that would cripple them and
bring them and their megalomania down
to earth again, if that is possible.
And as I said, it is vital you do this
before THE SYMPOSIUM, because my spies
report that they plan on usurping the
balance of our Federation there,
possibly by armed rebellion or using
similar means. This must NOT happen,
so weaken them if you can. If not,
return here alive with sufficient
intelligence about the SIRIans and
their plans"

»CL7:After the audience Zzarg wasted no
time, but hurried down to the hangar
where his S.C.E.N. Fighter Mark IV was
stationed. After checking that it had
enough fuel and that all systems were
ok, he set the coordinates which would
guide him to SIRI Prime. His trusty
old fighter deposited him cleanly out
of hyperspace just a few Astronomical
Units distant from SIRI Prime, and
Zzarg noticed no hostile forces on his
AOS 40.5 consolewindow. "How strange",
he mused, "I'd have thought those
SIRIans had protected their seat of
power a lot more. I have to be extra
careful here...". With that last
thought, Zzarg engaged his

    »PIC:Budgie7»















Cloak-O-Matic 3.129b unit, dove down into the atmosphere of the planet, and
began his one-rambosaurus-against-it-all QUEST..... 