»CL8:--------------------------------------
»CL9:              »BIG:Editorial»SML:
»CL8:--------------------------------------

»CL4:1st part by Curt Cool
»CL0:2nd part by Cytron
»CL4:
Happy new year! A bit delayed, but
with »CL5:Magic/Nah-Kolor» joining the
Eurochart staff, thus bringing a lot
of articles with him in the process,
it took a little while longer than we
expected - but now it's here, and I
rather hope you will enjoy it.
Hopefully 1999 will show itself a good
year for the scene - »CL5:The Party»
certainly had some amazing
releases, of which several already
possess impressive rankings in the
charts.
I'm sorry that my bit of this
editorial is very small and stupid,
but basically I feel crap in every
possible way, having returned from a
boozing trip yesterday, and just
having found out that I have failed
the easiest exam I will ever have a go
at during my university life - a life
which, right now, seem to end rather
sooner than I want it to - but perhaps
tomorrow I will look at it differently
- at least I hope so. Or perhaps I
should just have spent a bit less time
on the scene - or perhaps I should
just care about what I study. Or
anything at all.
Well, see you at the »CL5:Symposium Mekka
'99, some releases are on the way from
Depth as well.
»CL5:Curt Cool/Depth
»CL1:Whoah!»CL0: It is I, »CL1:Cytron» - listening to
Denmarks favourite radio station -
editing my bottom off for your sake. I
hope you like these new »CL9:c»CL8:o»CL7:l»CL6:o»CL5:r»CL4:s »CL0:and
fonts, I've implemented. So - »CL1:February»
had to sneak in upon us before
releasing this chart - for that we are
truly sorry. We have always tried to
keep our promises, and I'll make
everything in my power to make sure
that this was the last delay for the
Eurochart ever. Now - lean back and
enjoy or articles, or watch yourselves
and your friends topping the charts
and boozing at various parties - keep
on scening!




As you might notice - my mood is
somewhat more positive than our dear
»CL1:Curt Cool»'s. This is because I've
finally finished working at that
bloddy nuclear power test station
programming my butt off. Now I'm ready
to school once again - once again
doing as little a possible at school -
partying a much as possible instead!
Happy new year, to the lot of you
guys!
     »PIC:Revi1» 