»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                      Breakpoint 2003 - Survival Camp!
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                          Written by Zerox of Gods

»CL6:                                Introduction

»CL1:This  is  an attempt at making a small
partyreport  from the Breakpoint party
held in Bingen, a quite deserted place
somewhere in south-west of Germany.

I wont bore you with my long trip from
Stavanger/Norway   to  Bingen/Germany,
but it has to be said that to move the
party  from  Fallingbostel  to  Bingen
wasn't  something  I  was very pleased
with.  This is not only because of the









longer   travel   distance,  but  also
because  of  the facilities in Bingen.
However,  the  outside  area  is quite
nice here.

»CL8:              Facilities

»CL1:The  party  is  being held in a closed
militarycamp I guess, which means that
the  halls aren't exactly state of the
art.   The  first  day when we arrived
here, the temperature both outside and
inside was really comfortable.  But as
the  evening  arrived, the temperature
fell  a  lot.   This  led to us nearly
freezing to death.  I've never been to
any party in the past with such a cold
mainhall.  It was not very pleasant at
all  trying  to  sleep in the separate
sleepinghall either.  I felt quite ill
the    next    day.    However,   I've
experienced sleepinghalls a lot colder
in   the   past,  but  have  tried  to
suppress my memory of the Gathering in
1994.   Apart  from  that,  the mobile
toilets  are  not  even  close  to the
standard   of  the  ones  at  Mekka  &
Symposium.    The   showers  are  also
located  far away from the partyplace.
But   there's   a   partybus  bringing
sceners  to  that  and other locations
downtown.  Nevertheless, you only have
a  chance  to  take a shower from 8 in
the   morning  until  12.00  I  guess.
There are two places where you can get
different  food  and  stuff,  and  the
prices  are  rather  nice.   Of course
it's possible to buy drinks (including
beers)   here   at   the   partyplace.
Concerning  the low prices on beer, as
a norwegian I'm almost in heaven.

»CL8:              The Party

»CL1:On the first day, there was an opening
cermony,  a  jam  session  and  a cool
demoshow.  But it was a bit hard to do
much  creative  work  here  because my
hands   were   freezing   like   hell.
Despite of that, there are really lots
of sceners present, perhaps 700 people
all in all?  And these parties are all
about meeting sceners, so with that in
mind   I  think  the  party  is  quite
succesfull  afterall.   It also has to
be  mentioned that the temperature did
rise  a lot late the second day of the
party  (but  not in the sleepinghall).
Today,    it's    really    warm   and
comfortable in the mainhall.  And with
the warm temperature, the scenefeeling
is  returning  as  well.   The  people
present here are going around chatting
with  fellow sceners, trying to finish
some   demos   before   the  deadline,
eating,   drinking,   smoking,   being
outside in front of the fire, chilling
in  the  sun,  listening  to  the  Djs
playing  etc.  There will also be held
some  other activities I've been told,
but I dont know more about that at the
present time.

»CL8:           The Competitions

»CL1:So  far  most  compos  have been held.
Most  competitions have had some quite
decent contributions.  In the 4k-intro
competition,  there  were  3  entries.
The  first  one from Tulou wasn't very
good  at  all,  not even when thinking
about  the  1997  standard  as  it was
meant  to  be released then.  But Fact
from  Scarab was quite good, but a bit
too  short  to  win the compo I guess.
The  intro  Timur Lenk done in coop by
Spaceballs   and  Ephidrena  was  even
better,  it  seemed  to  have  lots of
effects  even  though  it mainly dealt
with much stuff around one routine.  I
didn't   really  expect  such  a  cool
intro,  with  that  great  music.   It
looked very good on the bigscreen.

As  for  the  64k intro entries, there
were  none.   It's  a  sad story.  One
group  managed  to  deliver  an  intro
within  the  deadline,  but because of
too   few   entries   the   compo  got
cancelled.

The  demo  competition  wont  be  held
before  late  this evening.  But we're
all  hoping that we'll get some decent
demos  there.   I  do  expect at least
groups  like  TBL,  Mawi  and  IRIS to
deliver something good.  When it comes
to other groups, several have given up
finishing  their demos for this party.
So  I  fear  there  won't  be any more
entries.  And if that happens, it will
be  a  bit  sad.   The  previous years
there  have  been  a  lot  of releases
during the easter.  Perhaps this party
and  the Gathering party will have the
same amount of demos this year?

If  Darkhawk  works  harder,  we might
even  manage  to  release  EC  at this
party.  But I doubt that also, he's so
lazy you know.  Jurassic Pack won't be
out  at  this party afterall, it seems
due  to  the fact that the code has to
be changed to fit the new panels.

I  wont  write much about the network,
or  about  much  else  either for that
sake.   I  feel  quite  empty  now, so
instead  you  should  read  the report
from  Darkhawk  if you haven't read it
already.

All  I  can  say is that Breakpoint is
quite  a  cool  place to be, so if you
weren't   present   you've  definately
missed   something.   Still,  I  liked
Mekka & Symposium a bit better...


 »PIC:EcLogoFish2.iff»
