»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                               Vote Cheating
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                        Written by Darkhawk of IRIS


»CL1:This  is  a new article in the EC, but
it  might become a regular feature, if
people continue with this sad trend..

Well, the thing is, over the years, we
have   seen   many  examples  of  vote
cheating.  Some do it on purpose, some
do  it  without  thinking  about  it..
Either way, it takes extra work on our
part  to  check  the votes, and delete
mistakes/fakes.   Some  of the easiest
cheating  to  detect, is the 'vote for








your  own group' cheating.  Some might
indeed do it unconsciously, or because
they haven't checked the rules, others
might  do  it in a protest against the
rules  (after  all,  the  scene  is so
small,  and  if the graphician in your
group  is  the best..  Well, he is the
best..), and some do it on purpose, to
fake,  hoping it won't be noticed.  In
either  cases,  it is not allowed, and
so  we  will have an article like this
for  each  EC,  displaying the list of
the  people  who  cheat  by voting for
their    own    groups    members   or
productions.   This  might  act  as  a
deterrent  to  people  (well,  I don't
believe  much  in  deterrents  in  the
legal system, but let's see whether it
can have an effect here).

Before we go over to the list, I might
explain  to  you  while we can't allow
people   to   vote   for   their   own
productions  or members.  It is really
quite simple:  People can't handle it.
There  are  good  reasons for allowing
it:

»CL7:1.   The  scene  is quite small, it is
easy  to know who're the top-5 best in
each  category, and quite often, it is
one in your own group.
»CL8:2.   If it is one production or member
in   your   own  group,  who/which  is
clearly  the  best,  it is unfair that
you can't vote for him/it.

»CL6:3.    Responsible   people   can  vote
fairly.

»CL1:Unluckily   practice  shows  that  the
scene is still too big to vote fairly.
I  have seen many examples of cheaters
over the years, who vote for their own
group,  for people and productions who
are  not  that fantastic.  So, as long
as  reality  makes  it  impossible, we
can't  allow  people to vote for their
own productions or members, especially
not now, where you don't need too many
points  to  advance in the charts.  If
people could handle it, we'd allow it,
naturally..   But  the  world is not a
perfect place, as you might know.

And   now..    Over  to  the  list  of
shame...

»CL1:Accede/Apathy&Contraz - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Azzaro/MAWI&Floppy    - »CL6:Voted for groupmembers.. Again.. 
»CL1:Da Freak/RNO&Lqs      - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Dipswitch/DCS         - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Magic/Nah-Kolor       - »CL6:Voted for groupmembers.. Of course.. 
»CL1:Punisher/Gods&Nah     - »CL6:Voted for groupmembers and group productions
»CL1:Raver/Pht&DCS         - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Sane/Haujobb          - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Sobol/Appendix&Ptn    - »CL6:Voted for groupmembers and group productions. A LOT!
»CL1:Strife/Apathy         - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Virgill/HJB&SCX&Nah   - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Wade/HJB&FLT          - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:XzIt/Apathy           - »CL6:Voted for groupmember
»CL1:Zandax/Damage         - »CL6:Voted for groupmember




















»CL1:So..   Only  around  15% of our voters
are  fakers..   Could  be much worse..
Yes..   Ehehmm...   Well,  enough said
here.   We hope you will take the hint
and not vote illegally next time......















      »PIC:BlueGirl.iff»
