»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                                 Editorial
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                        Written by Darkhawk of IRIS

»CL1:This  is it..  The EC staff is sitting
around me, here at the Breakpoint 2003
party,  at  around 10 o'clock the last
day,   waiting   for  the  prizegiving
ceremony  coming  up  in  an hour.  We
have  experienced 4 days of quite much
work  and  partying,  and before that,
one   week  of  work  at  an  internal
meeting,  to be able to bring you this
release of the Eurochart, a Breakpoint
issue  so  to  speak.   We  will  have
reviews, interviews with people at the
BP  (hrm,  maybe,  depends  on whether







they've  filled  their  interviews, or
have  gone boozing instead..), we have
the  BP  Amiga  results too, and if we
work  real hard and fast, we will have
some  cool  pictures  of sceners at BP
doing the scening and boozing thing.

For  this issue, you might notice that
we  have enlarged our editorial staff;
we  warmly  welcome Zerox of Gods into
our  circle  of  dangerously disturbed
individuals,  and hope this will bring
a  lot  of  energy and actual articles
into  the EC.  It's sad that the Amiga
scene  is  too  small  to  sustain the
Gods&IRIS  mag  DISC,  but at least we
will  now pool our ressources into the
EC  instead, making it stronger.  Here
I  also  hope  that  JP  will come out
again,  and be a regular, we have some
worries  about  the  future of the JP,
and  the  Amiga  diskmag  scene should
really  not get much smaller.  We also
need  inspiration from other places to
work  in  the best possible way.  This
inspiration  we  have  gotten from the
Breakpoint  party this time around, it
is quite stimulating sitting in a hall
with  around 1000 creative and boozing
sceners,  coming  from  all around the
globe.   It  is  a  funny  thing,  but
sceners,  having  grown up, and gotten
jobs  (well,  some  have,  eheh), also
seem  to spend more money on attending
parties, coming from far away to go to
the  best  parties.   When  looking at
sceners  at  BP, there're many I don't
know  personally  of course, but still
I've  seen  the  same  faces  on party
after  party.   We should maybe try to
make    our    community   even   more
close-knit  and  social, now that most
sceners  stay in the scene, and get to
see  each  other at each party.  As it
is  now,  there  is  still  a  lot  of
sceners,  who  pass eachother by, only
talking to people they already know.

Anyway,  it  has  been a long wait for
this   issue  of  the  Eurochart;  you
needn't  worry,  we  are not dead, far
from  it,  but  we  have  indeed  been
focusing  more  on  real life, than on
scene  matters.   Also you, the scene,
seem  to  have  done this, at least it
took  a  long  time  to get the needed
votes  from you, and support wise, I'm
a  bit  sad  to say that this issue of
the  EC isn't the best.  Our coder Dr.
Doom  was  busy finishing our demo for
the  competition,  so  he  hasn't been
able  to  work  much  for  the EC this
time,  this  is  also  why you'll find
none   of   his  usual  Coders  Corner
articles.   For the next time, he will
be back though, as will we all, sooner
than  you'd  expect most likely, since
we're  all pretty unemployed in just 2
months  time,  hehe.  Adonis succeeded
in  beeing fired from his job at last,
Zerox  will be fired in 2 months time,
and  I  myself  will  finish my 6 year
long  study of philosophy and religion
in  one  and a half month (if all goes
as   it  'should',  and  I  finish  my
special  thesis  in time).  Therefore,
suddenly all 3 of our 4 man staff will
be  unemployed  loosers,  with no jobs
and  a  lot  of sparetime (I sincerely
hope,  I need a break!), so we'll join
Dr.   Doom  in  being social outcasts,
hehe.   This  will hopefully mean that
we  have  more time for the Eurochart,
more  time  for improving it too.  The
future  will show, but in any case you
can lay your eventual worries to rest;
we are here to stay.
