»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                        How Much Should You Woo-Boo?
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                         Written by Adonis of IRIS

»CL1:Yet another article about an old topic
but  viewed  from  a  new angle, or at
least I hope so.

This  article  is  going  to  be about
motivation,  but not about how you can
and  why  you  need to, it is not even
going  to  be  about  how  you can get
yourself  motivated  again.  This will
concentrate on how hard you should try
to motivate one of your group mates.

I  talked with my organizer last night







and we had a little argument, not that
it  was  the first I have had with him
in  the  past  12 years.  I was asking
for  some  production  we  are working
on,(something  we will not comment any
further), and I was disappointed since
the  coders  was  not  working as hard
with  it as I would have liked them to
and  as hard as I would have worked on
it.  I know that I am also the one who
is going to release it when it is done
and  therefore  I am more eager to get
the  source  than he is to code, since
he  has  things that he thinks is more
important to code, okay actually maybe
not  more  important  but more fun for
fun,  since  the  thing he is going to
code  for  me is something that people
will call slave work.

I  told  my organizer that I could not
see  the  point in bugging him for the
code,  since he obviously did not feel
like  working on this project.  So why
force a guy to make something if he is
not  that interested in it, the result
will  most  likely  look like it then.
Nevertheless,  I  know that this coder
will  do  a good job even if he is not
interested  in  it, but I would rather
have   him  to  make  it  when  he  is
motivated  for  it  and not need to be
helped through it.  Sure, peptalks can
help and will most likely motivate him
to  get it done, but again what if the
peptalk  I  can  give  him sounds more
like  a  complain  about  him  and the
speed  in which he works ?  Would that
not just make him think several things
and   maybe   even   loose  even  more
interest in it?

So  in  case you decide to make one of
these  motivation  talks  with one you
would  like  to  speed  up,  then  you
really  have to think about the things
you  will  say to him, in order to get
the best result out of if.

So  where  have  we ended?  We need to
think  about  the things we would like
to  have our group members to do.  Did
it  really  come  so far, do we really
lack  scene  members to a degree where
we have to be diplomatic in the way we
talk to trusted members?

YES,  we  have  actually  reached  the
point where that is needed; some might
say  it  is  because  of  their  work,
family  and  school.   But I am pretty
sure  that sceners in the old days had
much  of  the  same problems.  No, the
fact  is  that  we  just  "prioritise"
differently  and back then people just
decided  to  put  The  Scene  in first
place.  Nevertheless, this has changed
and  organizers  and  members  of  the
groups have to think differently these
days   in   order   to   gain  maximal
potential  from  their members without
killing  the  spirit  which might have
fainted  already.  Several groups have
members  who  cannot make a production
on  their own, so if they have to wait
till it is their turn again to release
a      slideshow,     musicdisk     or
diskmagazine,  then  that period might
seriously  kill  whatever  spirit that
might  be  left, so why not make those
simple   productions,   which  can  be
released  now and without the presence
of the coder.

If  any  of  you  organizers read this
then I sincerely hope that some of you
will  load  your  CygnusEd or whatever
you  use and make an article where you
tell the rest of us why your group are
doing so well as it is.  Might be that
you have some tools and ideas that the
rest  of  us  could use to improve the
motivation and strengthen the spirit.


                     »PIC:6.iff»
