»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                        The Kindergarden 2003 Reviews
»PIC:barclip.ilbm» 

»CL8:                           Written by Zerox of Gods

»CL6:                                 Introduction

»CL1:First  of  all I have to warn you that
these  reviews are not very precise or
good.    As  the  party  was  finished
yesterday,   the   productions  aren't
available at the net yet, so I'll just
do  a  small  review of the intros and
demos  based  on  my  memory and a few
notes   I  wrote  while  watching  the
productions  being  displayed  at  the
bigscreen.    I  might  remember  some
things  wrongly,  as the compos didn't









end  before  06.00 the last day of the
party.   And besides, I was drinking a
bit  while  watching,  hehe.   As  you
understand,   I've   only  seen  these
productions  one  time,  and therefore
I've  most likely not been able to get
all the details.





»CL8:              The Intros

»CL1:The  new  norwegian coder Rumrunner of
Void   released   a  4k  intro  called
Bobshow.   It's  his  first  4k  intro
ever,   and   it  looks  like  a  real
oldschool  way of making an intro.  It
offers  a flow of bobs from a point in
the  upper  left screen to the rest of
the screen, and at the bottom there is
a  fast  scrolltext.   The  intro  has
fitting music, and it brings back some
memories of old amiga releases.

The     second    and    last    Amiga
contribution,  was a 64k-intro done in
coop between Apathy and UpRough called
Haakan.   The  code  was  supplied  by
Strife/Apathy, the gfx by Spot/UpRough
and     the    music    by    Mortimer
Twang/UpRough  I  think.   It's a very
small  intro,  which features a nicely
designed beginning with fitting music.
A  text saying "Apathy & UpRough would
like to say Meaow" appears, and then a
cool  animation  of  a  cat  pops  up.
That's about it really.

»CL8:              The Demos

»CL1:When  we  move  over to the demos, the
quality  rises  alot.  The first demo,
is  done  by  Mawi and it's a PPC demo
called  "Till  I Feel You".  It begins
with  the  text "we are back...  click
click   click",  in  traditional  Mawi
style.  Then we see some rather simple
3D.     Some   buildings   are   being
displayed.    We  move  between  these
buildings and under a bridge.  Next up
are  some  greetings, just interrupted
by  some greytone-like 3d objects, and
the    greetings    part    continues.
Afterwards  a  rather  nice  scene  is
being  shown.   We see some big flower
objects,  over  a blue background that
looks   like  water.   We're  probably
seeing some waterlillies.  Some strong
lightbeams  are flying over the screen
aswell.   Out  of nowhere a picture of
an  icewoman  pops up, and many things
are  happening  in one screen.  We get
to see a great rotating 3D object of a
big  face  of  a  woman.  Then another
greylike  picture  of a woman is being
displayed  in  the front, while seeing
some  effects  in  the background.  At
the  end of this demo, we get to see a
rather  strange  3d object, it is hard
to  explain  how it looks.  Then there
are  some blue colours and a text pops
up  saying  "A  love  killer  in me, a
killer  in  you...".   This is "Till I
Feel You" by Mad Wizards in 2003.  All
in  all  I  must say it's quite a nice
demo,  with  really  great atmospheric
music  by  Alkama & Mo, in addition to
the    normal   code   by   Kierownik.
However,  I've  seen  better PPC demos
from  this  Poland-based  group in the
past.

The  next  demo  was done by Ephidrena
and  called "Lysbryter", which perhaps
could be translated with lightbreaker?
First  off is a greenlike object being
displayed  on  the screen.  Next up is
another  2d effect, it looks like some
clouds  and  then  the light is coming
through.   Quite nice.  Then pops up a
picture  of a man with headset done by
Cheetah  I  think.   Another  of these
greenlike   objects  appears,  and  in
front  a  3d object which is a casette
zooming  and rotating.  Then we get to
see  a  greyish  object.  Afterwards a
headset  is  being zoomed and rotated,
in addition to a casette.  We then see
a twister-like effect, and at the very
end  some  lightballs (which look like
meteors)  are  appearing.   That's  it
really.   I  have  to mention that the
music  was good, and that this classic
68k   demo.   All  in  all  was  quite
enjoyable.

Spaceballs  also  managed  to  deliver
something in the demo competition, but
it  looked  more like a dentro really.
Anyway,  their contribution was called
The  Plague.  First of all just a text
in the left of the screen saying Paula
appears,   and   then   right  on  the
screen...  Spaceballs.  First off is a
big  circle  of  objects.  The objects
were    greylike   and   formed   like
triangles.  Then a kinda' cool blurred
object  appears,  and next up is a man
which   is  moving  slightly.   He  is
created    by   dots   or   something.
Afterwards another blurred object pops
up.   And  at the end, a small picture
of  a human like object with a hole in
his  head  (the hole was formed like a
triangle)  is  being  displayed.  That
was  all  for  this  very  short demo,
which  is  far from the best I've seen
from  Spaceballs.   According  to  the
rumours,  this  production was created
in just one day.

In any case, the next real scene event
is    the    Breakpoint    party    in
Bingen/Germany.   Be there or nowhere!
Reading  about  productions  can never
beat  the  feeling  of  watching them.
And besides, The demos/intros are best
watched  "live"  at the bigscreen!  So
I'm  already  now  looking  forward to
watching  the  demos of the Breakpoint
party  at  the  bigscreen.  It will be
great.

At the end I have to mention that this
article  originally  was  written  for
AmigaPlus issue 03/2003.






      »PIC:2.iff»
