»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                           Interview With Steeler
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                          Written by Zerox of Gods

»CL1:
                      Real Name: Ekkehard Brüggemann

                           Handle/Group: Steeler

                                  Age: 31

                   Location: Hamburg/Hannover in Germany

                        Website: http://go.to/ekki
                               ICQ: 72530174






















Current    scene    occupation:    PR,
Funstuff   Organizing  and  "official"
host of BreakPoint Party

Some  of  the  questions were answered
with  the help of the Breakpoint team,
especially   Ryg/Farbrausch   whos  is
mainly    responsible    for   several
competitions and rules.

»CL8:             Introduction

»CL6:ZX:   »CL6:As  a short introduction, please
tell  the  readers  a  few words about
yourself,  which computer scene you're
a part of and what you want to achieve
in the scene.

»CL7:ST:   »CL7:I  have  been active in the C64,
Amiga  and PC scene for several years.
Nevertheless I´m rather inactive today
when  it comes to democoding, graphics
or  sound  but  I  follow the ongoings
from  some  sort  of  a near distance.
For  today  I  describe myself more or
less  as  a  social  supporter  of the
scene   (you   can   call  me  "social
middleware" ;)).  I followed the scene
since  the  mideighties.  During these
golden  64 and Amiga days I was coding
and  started networking/bbs stuff with
a 300 baud modem.  On a non scene side
I  started  studying  when I was about
23.  Some people might know me from my
Village   Tronic  times  (PicassoIV  )
where I was working at that time as PR
and  Support  Manager.   Right now I´m
occupied  as a PR manager with Inverse
Entertainment,   a   game  development
company  in  Hamburg  /  Germany where
mainly sceners work.

People  from  the  scene might know me
from  the  Mekka/Symposium  series  of
demo  parties.  We held this party for
several  years  now and I think it was
one  of  the  more respected demoscene
computer parties these days.

»CL6:ZX:   »CL6:When did you enter the scene and
how did you first get attracted to it?

»CL7:ST:  It must have been somewhen around
the middle to the end of the 80th.  At
first  I  found  out about crackintros
and was coding my own assembler intros
with  a  friend  during the c64 times.
We  cracked  and  coded the whole days
and  did some swapping with a handfull
of  mates in germany.  The usual stuff
for  a  scener,  I  think  ;) At Amiga
times  I  simply  quit programming and
started  as  cosysop with the Blackbox
in   Hamburg,   a   small   copy-  and
communication  network for amiga stuff
which  took my whole spare time.  ;) I
got in contact to the local scene over
this   BBS   together   with   Gandalf
(Mainsysop)   and   we  thought  about
organizing   a   usermeeting.   So  we
started with about 30 people and named
this meeting "Blackbox Symposium".  If
you  followed  the  history  of MS you
might  have  noticed  we  were growing
rapidly  over the years.  At the first
meetings demos were not the main thing
but after we found out about "the real
stuff"  at  the "68xxx convention", an
atari  /  amiga  demoscene party which
was  very  impressive  to  us, we knew
what  we  have  to  do  meetings where
demos  are  in the center.  Everything
on this party really kicked ass and we
wanted to do a party like that.  So we
got in contact with the the organizers
of 68xxx and did it together ;)

»CL6:ZX:   »CL6:What  do  you find so facinating
with the scene?

»CL7:ST:  »CL7: Well.   Here  we  come  to  some
philosopical  aspects that count in my
point  of  view.  The most fascinating
beside  the technical aspects of demos
itself  is the loose and decentralized
organisation of the scene.  You get in
contact  with people from all over the
world  that  work  together on a laxly
base.    This   wordwide  scene  as  a
relatively  loose and most of the time
spontanous  cooperation of artist that
produce  in my opinion one of the most
interesting   technological  means  of
expression:

You   can  view  demos  from  so  many
perspectives  of perception that makes
them a real eclectic work of art where
every   artist   is   working  on  HIS
expression  that  leads  together with
others  to  a next level of cumulative
expression.  Try to explain demos to a
newbie an you know what I mean ;)

All  this makes the demos scene a very
interesting  underground  art  network
that  works inside their own rules and
limitations.  This scene is absolutely
worth to be supported.


»CL8:                Groups

»CL6:ZX:   Please tell us a few words about
Phantasm?

»CL7:ST:   Well.   Our little circle around
Blackbox needed a name.  So we gave us
the  name  phantasm.   There have been
several  amiga releases (e.g.  phxass)
where  I  was  not really involved in.
For myself I scripted some small tools
with  arexx  that  were released under
phantasm   label.   We  were  about  6
people  as  far as I remember - but we
never really released demos ourselves.
It really was just a loose cooperation
of  some  nerds  that sometimes met at
the  scala meetings organized by chaos
/  ex  sanity.  Today I think phantasm
is  dead.   So I´m not using the group
name myself anymore.

»CL6:ZX:   What  do  you think are the good
and bad sides of your group?

»CL7:ST:   Phantasm  is  just  a  name.  If
somebody  asks  for a group I give you
"Phantasm".   That´s  it!  Good or bad
?!  I think I´m too old for that ;)

»CL6:ZX:   How important do you think it is
for  a group to have a good organizing
and   real   friendship   between  the
members?  Is it important at all?

»CL7:ST:   I think trust and working at the
same  goal  is  the most important.  I
can  also  work  with  somebody that I
don´t   really   like  very  much  but
respect  him  when  I  know  that he´s
workin   on   the   same  goals.   But
nevertheless   it´s   easier  to  talk
"tacheles"  when you have some kind of
a friendship base ;)

»CL7:ZX:   What's  your  all-time favourite
group?  And why?

»CL6:ST:   Because they are friends its for
sure  sanity  and farbrausch.  From an
artists level I like Satori very much.
On  Amiga  it´s  for  sure  our polish
friends  from Madwizards.  I hope they
are  not pissed anymore because we had
the  amiga desaster on Mekka last year
;)




»CL8:                Demos

»CL6:ZX:    Tell  us  about  your  favorite
production?

»CL7:ST:    Uhhh...    On  the  amiga  it´s
"planet  potion" right now.  Marvelous
piece  of work.  I still have an amiga
but it´s not operative anymore since I
mainly  work  on  PC these days ;( Sad
but true...

On the PC (2d) it´s Satori - Metamorf.
On PC (3d) it´s Farbrausch - Poem to a
horse.    Wild-Demo:    Sunflowers   -
Lackluster

»CL6:ZX:   Do  you think it's ok to include
animations in demos/intros?
»CL7:ST:   As  you might have read before I
have  a  relatively open opinion about
demo-production.   You  can view demos
from    so    many   perspectives   of
production   and  perception  that  it
depends  on  what  you like to show or
say  with  your  demo.   When it makes
sense  please do it!  I´m not to judge
between    technical    aspects    and
expressiveness  on  regular.   The one
demo  likes  to impress with technical
aspects  the other more with sound and
graphics or all together.

Nevertheless  I won´t judge in general
but  I  can  for  sure tell you what I
like and what not.

»CL6:ZX:   What do you think about nowadays
demos?   And  what  do you think about
the 3d trend?

»CL7:ST:    I   like   both  oldschool  and
newschool.   The  3D  trend is ANOTHER
possibilty  that  will bring different
results   and   different   styles  in
expression.   I  also  saw ascii demos
that  blew  me  away.  So I won´t ever
judge  a change in technology.  I just
hope  theat  the  people do not forget
about their roots!  ;)

              The Scene

»CL6:ZX:   Do  you  remember the first demo
you saw and mag you read?

»CL7:ST:   Demo:  TRSI Megademo on Amiga ;)
For  the  mags  as  far as I remember:
Brainfart, Grapevine and Seenpoint.
»CL6:ZX:   How should we manage to get more
people attracted to the scene?

»CL7:ST:    TalkTalkTalk  -  and  use  your
network!

»CL6:ZX:   Do  you  have  any special scene
memory  you  want  to  share  with the
readers?

»CL7:ST:   Sitting  on stage at MS together
with   sceners   and   smoking  a  big
waterpipe with a didgeridoo playing in
the background was rather nice ;)

To be honest the best story was having
the  boss  of Amiga Petro T.  on stage
and  playing  1,2  or  3 with him.  We
made  some  real insider questions for
this  session  and  everybody  in  the
audience  knew that he does not really
know  anything about technical aspects
of  our  beloved  machine.   I  really
always  thought  he  was  a jerk - and
voila  he  really was!  ;) I had tears
in  my  eyes  afterwards  ;) Having no
respect  and making fun of him without
making   him  feel  uncomfortable  was
relly  the  most funny thing ever.  We
shook   hands  and  drank  some  beers
afterwards  - the amiga audience loved
it.

»CL8:      The Mekka-Symposium Party

»CL6:ZX:  You're wide known in the computer
scene  for  organizing  the  live-show
coverage   at   the   stage   and  the
entertaintment  at the Mekka-Symposium
parties.   The MS-party has also grown
into the biggest scene-party in Europe
the  latest  years.  What do you think
was the key to this success?

»CL7:ST:   Well  -  the  sucess  that  made
symposium  was based on the enthusiasm
and the different skills of the people
that  organised  this party.  Compared
to  others in the organizing staff I´m
really  just  a  little  light when it
comes   to   scene   activities.   But
nevertheless  I  think  for  my part I
found  some sort of humor and had some
basic  ideas  to  present  MS  to  the
audience that fitted well enough.

»CL6:ZX:   When did you get involved in the
organizing   of   the  Mekka-Symposium
party,  and  what  was your motivation
and reason to take part in this event?
»CL7:ST:   I´m with Symposium from the very
first day.  Gandalf this BBS System in
our  hometown  where I was cosys.  Our
plan  was  to  make a meeting with the
users   from   our  board.   The  name
"Symposium"  for our party was basicly
my idea.  So we put it up together and
Gandalf   was   organizing  the  first
locations in a catholic church.  After
joining  with  the PC Party "Mekka" we
just   put  the  names  together.   My
motivation for the first Symposium was
that   we  nearly  knew  each  of  our
visitors  personally (about 50 for the
first   "bigger"   one)   If  you  are
interested in the history of MS please
feel  free  to read the history of the
party  written  by me some year ago at
http://ms.demo.org/98/misc.html

»CL6:ZX:   The  25th  of November last year
the  sad  news  reached  the  computer
scene:     "Due    to   irreconsilable
personal    differences   within   the
main-organizer   team,   the  Mekka  &
Symposium  party  2003  WILL  NOT TAKE
PLACE".   What  where the main reasons
for  not  organizing another sequel of
this succesful party?  Different ideas
for  future  parties?   Money?  Ending
friendship?

»CL7:ST:   The main organisation team of MS
consisted  of  6  people.   To make it
short:    After   some   communication
problems inside the main team 4 people
decided  not  to  trust  the other two
anymore.   There  were some stories in
the  background  that don´t need to be
discussed  in  public  here.   This  2
mainorgas  are not in the orga-team of
breakpoint  and  will  never  be.  The
other  4  are  still  deciding or have
decided  to  work with the rest of the
team.    If  not  physically  we  have
intellectual  support  from  them  for
Breakpoint...

Nevertheless the original team, around
30  people,  of  the old MS staff that
makes  the  feeling  of the party like
beamteam,  funcompo crew, infocrew and
all  the  rest  is  still  there.   So
counting  by  people we are still like
mekka.    Only  a  new  goverment  got
elected ;)

I  hope  that everything works out and
we can expect support by the scene...


»CL8:         The Breakpoint Party

»CL1:   http://breakpoint.untergrund.net

»CL6:ZX:   The  Breakpoint party which will
take  place from Friday 18.04.03 until
Monday  21.04.03 in Bundeswehrdepot in
Bingen  could  be  looked  upon as the
successor  of  the  Mekka  & Symposium
party.   What was the reason to create
this  party after the sad death of The
Mekka  & Symposium party?  Who came up
with the idea?

»CL7:ST:   The  reason  was that we are not
used  to stay home at easter time.  We
are doing it for several years now and
we just liked to continue.

»CL6:ZX:  It seems like alot of experienced
organizers  from  parties  such as The
Mekka & Symposium, Evoke, Dialogos and
Underground  Conference are behind the
Breakpoint party.  You and XXX/Haujobb
will  be  the moderators, but who will
be  responsible  for  the  rest of the
organizing?

»CL7:ST:   Mainly  Scamp  /  Vacuum  is now
responsible  for  all the legal stuff.
He  is  the  NEW  man behind the party
that  jumped in because he also didn´t
accept  the  death  of  MS.  He was in
contact with everybody in the mainteam
so  he suggested working together with
him.   Nearly  everybody  from the old
team  took  this opportunity.  We know
when we have to say "Yes!" ;)

»CL6:ZX:   Is  organizing a party as big as
the   Breakpoint   party   very   time
consuming?  How much time do you spend
on this party?

»CL7:ST:   Sure  it  is.  But as we are not
working  for the money behind it so we
stay  relatively  cool.   Everybody is
doing  what  he likes to do and we fit
together    very    well    like    in
good´ole´Symposium times.

»CL6:ZX:   You're focusing very much on the
fact   that   Breakpoint   will  be  a
demoscene  party  (not  a  LAN or copy
party)   -   just  like  the  Mekka  &
Symposium     party.     What's    the
difference  in  atmosphere  after your
opinion?   Are  you  afraid  that  the
Breakpoint  party  with time also will
turn into something like The Gathering
party, The Party and The Assembly?

»CL7:ST:  Do I really have to explain that?
;) Breakpoint is a 100% pure demoscene
and coding event.  Gamers:  STAY HOME!
That´s all I have to say...

»CL6:ZX:   Why don't you welcome gamers for
instance   at  the  Breakpoint  party?
"Gamers  will be thrown out if we need
space for arriving sceners".  :-)

»CL7:ST: Please choose:

( ) Because it´s a DEMO party !
( ) We never wanted to make money !
( ) We feel some kind of a cultural
    responsibility !
( ) We usually code the games and
    don´t want to play them in our
    spare time ! ;)

»CL6:ZX:   One of the most important things
for  sceners being at parties (without
socializing with sceners) is of course
the  competitions.  The scene is about
working  within  limitations,  showing
your  skills,  so why is it allowed to
use  up  to 128 mb of ram in the Amiga
demo  and  intro  competitions?  Isn't
this  the  opposite  of  working  with
limitations   but   instead  giving  a
helping  hand  to  those  that are not
that  skilled  (for example those that
can't optimize their sources etc.)?

»CL7:ST:    I´ll   answer   these  specific
question  with  the help of our master
of    competition,   namely   Ryg   of
Farbrausch.    We   think   that  size
limitation  for  the file sizes of the
demos  make  more  sense than do tight
memory requirements; besides, we tried
to  choose an amount that makes sense.
In   the  PC  compos,  we  will  (most
likely)  equip  the compo machine with
256MB  RAM.   A  PPC Amiga is probably
more   akin  to  a  (some  years  old)
Macintosh  than to an actual Amiga, so
we  tried to choose a memory size that
is   comparable   to   the   ratio  of
processing power, etc.  Of course this
is  a  very  crude  approximation, for
example the bus bandwidth in PPC Amiga
and  the  power  of available graphics
cards in Amigas compared to what is by
now  possible  in  PCs is basically an
order  of  magnitude.  In any case, we
try  to  choose that kind of limits so
that  people  will not get problems as
long as they design the demos properly
for  it.   Memory  usage  is harder to
plan  in  a  design phase than is e.g.
the   amount   of  graphical  content,
because   it  varies  more  with  what
exactly  you  want to do, so we choose
to  give  the machine rather more than
needed than less.

»CL6:ZX:   At  the last MS party there were
also many PPC productions.  Isn't it a
bit  unfair  to join the classic Amiga
and  the PPC productions in one compo?
Isn't  that  almost  like  joining the
Amiga and C64 compos?  Do you have any
plans  to seperate the classic and PPC
productions in the future?

»CL7:ST:  Yes, it is unfair, but the amount
of  68k  competition  entries is quite
low  by  now, so it wouldn't be a real
"competition"    anymore.     Besides,
voting  at MS in the last years pretty
clearly  shows  that  most  voters are
willing   to   accept  the  additional
limitations  present  in M68k entries,
and  honor  the  work  put  into them.
We'd rather have a "not-so-many compos
with  a  good  amount of entries" than
more  compos  with less entries.  This
is  both  for  the  visitors  (several
people  only  really  start watching a
compo  after  the  first  one  or  two
entries have been played, and it kinda
sucks for them if the compo only has 3
entries   in  this  case  :)  and  the
organizing   (more  competitions  make
planning  the time table and recording
of the demos far more difficult).
»CL6:ZX:   Why isn't there a 4channel music
competition  for instance?  Just a big
tracker    competition   where   about
everything   is   allowed   (even  RNS
format).  I guess I won't even mention
what   happened   to   the   pixel-art
competitions.  Any comments?  ;-)

»CL7:ST:  4-channel compos:  We haven't had
them  for  a  few years now at MS too,
basically   because   the   amount  of
entries  was  getting  so low that the
competition was getting uninteresting.
As said before, we try to avoid compos
with a very low number of entries.

Pixel compos:  The graphics compos are
very  different  than  at  most  other
parties,  we  are  aware of that.  The
rationale is that when the distinction
between  pixel and raytrace compos was
first introduced, they used completely
different    tools,   techniques   and
required  a  totally  different way of
working.   By  now,  where most people
use  Photoshop  and  other programs to
paint  textures,  edit rendered images
afterwards,  where  there  are lots of
artists  that  do both 2D painting and
3D   rendering   and   really  pixeled
entries  are  a very small minority in
graphics   compos,   that  distinction
feels  artificial  and  anachronistic.
The  philosophy  behind  the  graphics
compos  we  now  have is that we don't
care how exactly you made the image as
long as you can prove that you've made
it   yourself   (with  working  stages
etc.).   It's  the result that counts,
not the techniques used to get to that
result.

At  last  year's  MS,  we  tried first
steps  in  that  direction  (with  the
theme graphics compo that we also have
this  year,  for  example),  and  even
though   several   people   complained
before the party because they couldn't
imagine it would work out, the overall
resonance  we  got  about those compos
after the party was quite good.

»CL6:ZX:    How   do   you   practise   the
"pre-selection"  for  compos?   Who is
pre-selecting  what  will  be shown in
the  competitions  (Who will be in the
jury)?   Pre-selection  has often been
criticized at parties, so is it really
needed these days?  Are there still so
many   contributions  in  all  compos?
Well...   I  do remember there were 50
PC   demos  at  last  years  MS  party
though.  Amazing.  Naturally the Amiga
productions  were  more  impressive...
:-)

»CL7:ST:   The  actual  details  of how the
preselection works differs between the
teams,  mainly  due  to differences of
the  material the competition is about
:)  Generally, we watch/listen to each
entry  carefully,  try  to  judge  its
quality  as  objectively  as  possible
(that  is, we rate each entry).  Based
on  that  rating,  we  select who gets
into  the competition and who doesn't.
Ofcourse,   it's   not   simply  about
putting  all the highest-rated entries
into an competition - the preselectors
(which  are the respective competition
organizers) basically decide that in a
discussion, where the ratings are only
a guideline.  There are other criteria
too  -  for  example, we always try to
show  first  demos/pic- tures, because
we   think  that  anyone  who  submits
something  to  a  compo  for the first
time  deserves to be shown, as long as
that something isn't really utter crap
(which happens almost never).

And yes, preselection is still needed.
Basically, we do preselection whenever
we  feel that just showing/playing all
the  entries  would be too long.  What
exactly  "too long" is differs between
the  compos (for example, we generally
think  that  people  will  more likely
watch  a  3-hour  long demo compo than
they  would  listen  to  a 3-hour long
music  compo),  but  we try to keep it
reasonable.

»CL6:ZX:   Are  you  sure  that  faking the
votes isn`t possible at the Breakpoint
party?

»CL7:ST:  Short answer:  No.  You can never
be   sure   that  faking  votes  isn't
possible, and being too trusty in your
voting  system is extremely dangerous.
We  do try our best to make sure fakes
don't work though - we test everything
involved      with      network-voting
thoroughly,  for example.  Using other
people's  votekeys  is  also very hard
because unlike most other parties, you
can  only  get your votekey by letting
the  organizers  remove your wristband
(which  obviously  only happens on the
last   day,   after   the  voting  has
started).   Without that votekey, your
vote isn't valid.

Also,  after the votes are counted, we
verify their plausibility.  Basically,
the  organizer  responsible for voting
goes  around  the compo teams and asks
whether    the    results   in   their
respective   compos  look  reasonable.
When   we   think   that   there   are
irregularities, we can cross-check the
votes to see whether some manipulation
occured (we didn't have that case yet,
though).

»CL6:ZX:   The  Breakpoint  party  will  be
arranged  much  more  south in Germany
than  the  MS-party.   Is  this a wise
move  regarding  the  foreign visitors
from  the  Nordic  countries?  How are
the  facilities  in the hall in Bingen
compared to the one in Fallingbostel?

»CL7:ST:   I  don´t really care if it´s too
far  away.  The only thing that counts
is  that  I don´t have to stay home at
easter  time ;) Fallingbostel was also
not  really  in the middle of europe I
guess...

I  will  give  you a short list of the
pros  and  cons  for  the  location in
bingen:

Pros:    Much  place,  hidden  in  the
meadow  (be as loud as you can, nobody
cares),   very   cheap  loaction,  big
sleeping fascilities, near town, a big
grassi  place  for  the  fins  to do a
campfire

Cons:    Not   very  comfortable.   We
really  have  to  think  about hygenic
fascilities.    The  halls  are  quite
small and if there are too many people
we need to open a second hall.

Sure   it´s  sad  to  move  away  from
Fallingbostel.   But  If you have been
to MS before you know what felling you
can expect at BP.

»CL6:ZX:  The MS-party have had around 1200
visitors  the  latest  years.   In the
information  text  you  write that the
hall  in  Bingen  can  host  over 1000
visitors.   Do  you think you'll get a
problem  to  host all the sceners that
want  to  visit  the Breakpoint party?
Is  it  possible to make a reservation
in advance for instance?

»CL7:ST:   To  make it short, we got plenty
of  space at the location; there are 9
halls  which can host about 700 people
with  computers  each (in comparision,
at  last MS, we planned for about 1000
people  with  computers  and still had
space  left  in the end).  Our current
plan  is to use one of those halls for
the  party and another one as sleeping
hall.     We   don't   have   a   real
reservation     system,     but    our
registration  system, where people can
announce  that  they're going to come.
This  ofcourse  only  works for a very
rough  estimate,  but if it looks like
it could get tight with only one hall,
we  can always decide to use two halls
for  the  party, but we'd rather avoid
that  if  possible  (the atmosphere is
far  cooler  with just one hall).  The
difference  in rent we have to pay for
one  more  hall  is minimal, so we can
make that decision pretty late.

»CL6:ZX:   Will  you  give  our readers any
insights about what will happen at the
Breakpoint     party?      Live-shows?
Special   happenings?    Competitions?
And  what  has the Breakpoint party to
offer which other parties lack?

»CL7:ST:   Too early for now ;).  And to be
honest  we  never  presented  anything
before the parties to the public.  Not
even  the petro thing was known before
or the a capella chiptune singing...

But  if  you have been there you might
know  in  which direction we tend.  We
have  managed  it  until now to differ
every     year     thematically    and
funcompowise.

»CL6:ZX:   Please  tell  your opinion about
the future of the Breakpoint party:

»CL7:ST:  Let´s see what it will bring.  We
only  bring  up  the  environment - so
it´s  up  to you to party and to enjoy
;) If enough people will follow us and
we  are  not  totally  bankrupt  after
easter    we    might    think   about
continuing.   But  it  really  is  too
early.




»CL8:              Real Life

»CL6:ZX:  What's your occupation?

»CL7:ST:   Right  now  I´m  PR Manager with
Inverse     Entertainment    GmbH    a
gamedeveloping   company   in  Germany
where  many  sceners work (e.g.  Yoda,
KB, Crash, Torus)

»CL6:ZX:   Tell us about one of your normal
days...

»CL7:ST:   Well I get up; go to work; go to
a club at night and then I go home and
sleep well.  At the weekends I usually
meet  my  girlfriend  that lives about
150km south from Hamburg.

»CL6:ZX:   Do  you  have  any other hobbies
than computing?  And injuring yourself
by  skiing that is?  ;-) In that case,
which?

»CL7:ST:  Hm...  I think most of my hobbies
are  around  computers.  If I´m not in
front  of  the  machine  I collect old
hardware  and  clean the dust.  On the
other   hand   in   my  spare  time  I
sometimes  do  music,  listen to music
and   read   a  little.   Meeting  and
talking  to friends is also not just a
hobby.  And to be honest:  yes I´m not
really   sportive   -   that´s  why  I
ruptured   my   muscle   fibre  during
christmas hollidays ;)

»CL6:ZX:   What kind of music and movies do
you enjoy?

»CL7:ST:   Well  - from a genre side I like
SciFi  and  Fantasy.   I also love low
budged   stuff   and   movies  with  a
cultural and philosophical background.
A  good  integration  of  all this was
"Avalon",  a japanese movies made with
american dollars and filmed in Poland.
I really liked it very much.

Music?   Well  I´m  really  open  with
that.   From  classical music to bands
like  "System of a down" or "Queens of
the  stoneage".  Also much electronica
like  "Aphex Twin", "Plaid" or "Boards
of  Canada"  and  all the warp records
stuff  which  I  really  love.  I also
listen to Tori Amos, Herbie Hancock or
virtous  Guitarist  like Paco de Lucia
together with Cameron etc...  ;)

As you see my recent musical taste can
be   judged   as   "very  liberal"  or
"controversy".

               The End

»CL6:ZX:   Do  you  picture yourself in the
scene  10  years  from now?  ;) And do
you   plan   to   continue   arranging
parties?

»CL7:ST:  Hard to say.  Might be that I´m a
special  education  teacher  which  is
what I studied in university (together
with  chromag/haujobb/madwizards btw).
I  will  celebrate  my  35 years scene
jubilee  with  the age of 50 hopefully
at  breakpoint  2021  ;)  My kids will
code  a  16  Qbits intro which will be
directly  transfered to the neurons of
my  lymbic  system and will kick every
sceners brainbutt ;)

»CL6:ZX:  What's your future plans in life?

»CL7:ST:   Marrying  my girlfriend, doing a
good   job   and   stay  healthy.   ;)
baahahhh booooooring...

»CL6:ZX:   At last, ask yourself a question
and answer it.

»CL7:ST:  Shall I really?  ST:  Yes !

»CL6:ZX:   Thanks for spending alot of your
time  answering these questions.  Good
luck  with  future plans and of course
the  Breakpoint  party.   Now  you can
write  whatever  you  would like, like
greetings etc.

»CL7:ST:  Mommy !?  Do you still read ?

This    interview    was    originally
published in AmigaPlus issue 02/2003.

(note from Darkhawk: This article was
too big, and I was too lazy, so I
haven't spellchecked it.. Yep, there
you have it ;))
