
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                     Taboo #5 - English Edition Wanted
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                    Writtem by Fishwave of Scoopex & DCS


»CL1:Appendix  released  the fifth issue of
Taboo  in  early  January, the diskmag
they  are  running  since  1999.  Once
again,  without  surprise,  this is an
all  Polish issue - a national diskmag
so to speak.  It's a shame I'd say!

Being   in   the   lucky  position  to
understand Polish, too, I delightfully
read  this  very issue.  The editorial
background work of Slayer/Appendix and









Jazzcat/PicSaintLoup^Appendix       is
solid.   It's  most  clear at the very
nice  presentation.   Of  course  this
impression  is  supported by an all ok
code   (author   Emers/Appendix)   and
especially very nice magazine-graphics
by   Yon/Iris.    Certainly  the  best
overall  design  of  a  diskmag  since
ages!

Talking  about  the content one has to
point   out  the  great  brainwork  of
Sagrael/Appendix,     who    certainly
contributed  with a dozen of above the
average  articles  to  the  content of
Taboo  #5.  It shall not be kept quiet
that  most  of  them were written some
time  ago  however.   Within the scene
section  of the mag most articles deal
either   with   the  Polish  scene  in
general, Polish sceners, Polish groups
or  Polish productions.  That's not to
be  criticized, firstly for the reason
that   this   diskmag   is  in  Polish
(obviously)  and  secondly  because it
impressively  shows  that  the  Polish
Amiga  demoscene  is  populated by the
cream  of  the crop!  No other "scene"
is so rich in productivity making it a
child's play to fill a whole diskmag -
Taboo  #5  is the best evidence.  Just
check  the article about Polish groups
and  their recent productions - that's
amazing really.

Reading  the  articles  there  is also
some  special  kind of feeling like in
the  "good  old  times",  when sceners
knew   each   other   personally   and
everything  was  rather familiar.  The
quality  of the writings are all quite
good,  but  that's not very surprising
since  we  have  all  native  speakers
writing  in  their  mother  tongue.  A
Jurassic  Pack written in German or an
Eurochart   written  in  Danish  would
immediately  rise  in quality - that's
for sure and just an typical advantage
of national mags.

It's   a  great  pity  that  Taboo  is
released  in  Polish  only.  With some
English  parts  (or  an  100%  English
edition),  this  magazine could become
one of the best diskmags of the entire
scene.   Naturally the focus needed to
be  set on entire Europe in that case.
But  why should the Taboo staff do so?
There  is really no need for it.  Some
years   back   we  had  that  terrible
"Poland  vs.   Europe" debate.  I only
refer  to  my  article "Try Amazon.com
for  Polish  dictionaries" in Devotion
#2.   Recently the Polish scene (which
is  number one anyway) almost got more
good magazines than the rest of Europe
altogether:   Excess,  Beret, Taboo (I
am  not  too well informed about their
status,   but   there   seem   to   be
considerable  losses  though).   So in
fact  it's  not  a  matter  of whether
Poles  go  ahead and release something
in  English but non-Poles go ahead and
learn  Polish.   No,  seriously, times
have changed and looking at the latest
Eurochart  I  even  would  dare to say
that  the  Polish scene should be more
present  in  the  charts.  The diskmag
chart  however  is  exceptional:  only
diskmags  in  English  language  in an
international   chart,   sorry   Taboo
staff!
             »PIC:8.iff»
