»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                                The EC Award
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                          Written by Zerox of Gods

»CL1:While  D.I.S.C.   might  be  dead,  we
continue  to  hand out our prestigious
award  to  a  very  special  scener or
special  sceners  from  now on in each
issue of the EuroChart.

To  get  the EC Award a certain scener
has to have worked a very long time to
give other sceners pleasure out of his
work.   He  got  to have produced some
kind  of  quality  productions  over a
certain   period   of  time  and  done
something      special     for     the







amiga-community.   To get the EC Award
this  special  scener also have had to
influence  the  scene in some way with
his  efforts to provide productions or
contributions.    Everyone  that  have
done  something  very  special can get
this  honorable  award.   He  can  for
example  have produced demos that have
set  new  standards, brought new ideas
to  the  scene  like setting up online
scene-areas    at   internet,   showed
stunning    new   pictures,   composed
amazing  music, organised very special
scene  events or made productions come
true  with a will to never give up and
a  willingness  to  provide  something
fantastic  or  simply  given the scene
something we all appreciate very much.

To  judge and decide who will get this
prestiges  and  honorable  award,  the
jury  consisting of Darkhawk and Zerox
will  in  each issue evaluate the work
of  a  lot  of sceners and bring forth
the results here in the EuroChart.

This time the jury has given the award
to not only one scener, but two.  They
have  given contributions to the scene
in  form  of productions and ideas for
many  many  years.   Both  joined  the
scene  in the first half of the 90s we
guess,  and  both  choose  code  as an
artform.   For  quite  some  time they
have  been  united through their group
and  the  art of coding.  None of them
got especially famous because of their
code  in the beginning, but eventually
all   sceners  have  discovered  their
great talents.  Both have participated
in numberless productions.  The reason
why   we  have  chosen  to  give  this
prestigious award to these sceners, is
that  they  have succesfully continued
the  nice  tradition with bringing the
scene  new  ideas  in form of stunning
demos.   These  days  demos  have been
exceptional  good, and have definately
set new standards.

Both  have  been known to be a part of
the  successful TBL Depth gang.  There
can  be  no  doubt that the winners of
the  EC  award  of issue 46, are Kalms
and Rubberduck.

Congratulations   goes  to  KALMS  AND
RUBBERDUCK  for  all  the work they've
done  for  the  scene.   May them both
stay  active  years  to  come with the
willingnes     to     provide    great
demonstrations.   With this award they
get   only   appreciation,  pride  and
honour...

In  the  next issue of the EuroChart a
new  winner  will be announced...  who
knows...  it might just be YOU!





     »PIC:BlueGirl.iff»
