
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                               Time To Change
»PIC:barclip.ilbm»

»CL8:                         Written By Adonis of IRIS

»CL1:This  article  is  to  be aimed at the
diskmagazines and packs we have around
these  days.  You are killing yourself
if  you  continue  to produce like you
have  done  and  still  are doing; you
need  to think in new ideas and how to
improve.   The traditional way to make
diskmagazines    is    outdated,   the
audience is not listening anymore, and
you  have  no  feel  for  how many are
actually reading your work.









Some  people have changed and they got
the    success    that   the   regular
diskmagazines  do not have these days,
because  there  are  simply not enough
people who are willing to take time to
load  the  old  fashioned diskmagazine
these  days.   They want it online and
it could be click and play before they
even  think about reading the articles
the editors have worked hard to write.


I  know that many enthusiasts will now
claim  that it would kill even more if
you   brought  your  magazine  online,
because  then the whole concept in the
traditional  idea  is  ruined, and yes
you  might be right about this, but it
is  a matter of fact that not many are
reading  the magazines which are being
released  these days; bringing them on
the  net  would  most  likely get more
people  to  read  the  articles, since
many of the articles are actually of a
good   quality  and  can  be  read  by
sceners  who  are also working for the
evil side.

The staff of your magazine should lean
back  and  start  to  discuss what you
really can do to improve the situation
of the diskmagazine or pack your group
is  developing,  since  you  will  not
survive  if  you continue to work like
you are doing now.

I  admit,  that  I do not think that a
diskmagazine  these  days belongs on a
disk or hard drive; not only there, no
it  should  also  be  on the net, like
Hugi.   Not that it is a real magazine
you  only  have the option to read the
articles.   Nevertheless Hugi and Pain
are  for  the  PC users, totally lacks
design  and  I  am pretty sure that if
the  skilled  Amiga  editors  set down
together  with the graphicians and web
designers,   then  they  could  create
something  really  innovative and new,
which   could   make  sure  that  more
support   would  come  and  then  even
improve the magazine.
We  have  to face it, not many want to
download this old fashioned executable
file and install it on the hard drive,
the mass wants click and play which is
more  than  easy  to  check, plus they
should  also  have  the opportunity to
give  their support on the web-site in
form of votes, surveys, etc.

We  have  had  the  opportunity for so
long but no one have managed to create
something  that  is worthy of reading.
Seriously,  Hugi  and  Pain  have  not
managed   to  create  something  worth
reading,  I  am  not talking about the
executable  version,  but  the one you
can find on the net.

So  what  group should be the first to
make   a   new  stunning  diskmagazine
presented  to  the  masses  on the net
only?  Is it your group?




    »PIC:5.iff»
