disc.font,10
«»

«c1»
«»«ac»
                        *** YOU ARE ADDICTED!!! ***«»
«»«al»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»«as»
«c5»I guess most of the «c2»AMIGA «c5»sceners got interested in the amiga because
of the great games this faboulous machine offered. In the beginning we
played for hours every day, and later our interest for the scene productions
took over. Anyway, some of us are still spending hours in front of the
computer every day. Yes, a big amount of sceners have also other computers
which are mostly used to play games; like Nintendo 64, Playstation, Gameboy,
Snes, PC, etc. etc.«»
«»
We can seperate the scene addiction and the game addiction. Let's concentrate
on game addicts. We've all uttered that well known phrase "just one more go"
some time or another. Many of us have taken it further than that also. We might
play games for seven or eight hour stretches. Sometimes we even let playing
games effect our studies, job or social life in general. We just can't stop
thinking about the games we want to play, productions we want to make, people
we should contact etc. I have to admit I've been thinking about «c2»D.I.S.C.
«c5»for example very much the latest years.«»
«»
When it comes to games there isn't any particular type of game that is more
addictive than others. It's quite different from person to person. However,
there are certain tricks and techniques which developers use to keep a player's
interest. For a start, the pace of the action is almost always kept up. There's
always an obstacle or opponent to overcome. The majority of tasks are relatively
simple: leap from one platform to another; shoot a conveniently clustered
group of aliens; collect some strategically placed power-ups etc. It means
that every few seconds you're doing something right and being rewarded for it
by moving through the game. It makes you feel like you're progressing and gives
you confidence and enthusiasm.«»
«»
Scoring systems are key to hooking a player. The whole concept of measuring
your performance is central to the possibility of addiction; it provides the
most obvious reason to re-start, to try beat your previous score or your
all-time best. Games are also constructed so that once you get to a certain
level it's relatively easy to get close to it again. So even if you fail to
beat your best score, it has still been an exiting experience and worth
doing again.«»
«»
As for the scene, it's real easy to find similarities and parallels.
You always try to improve - to make a better production than the last one;
either it's a diskmag, a demo or a slideshow. When you've created a diskmag,
a demo or a slideshow it's easier to do it again.  You've perhaps gained
fame, a high ranking or money, and you want it again. It's obvious.«»
«»
So... «c2»ARE YOU ADDICTED? «c5»There are certain signs that are the same for all
kind of addictions, and I've tried to gather them here. Check it our yourself.«»
«»
«c6»1. The activity is the most important thing in a person's life. Even if they're
not doing it, they're thinking about it.«»
«»
2. The activity provides a high or a buzz or, conversely, is used to relax or
tranquilize (the same activity can perform both functions at different times
- think of a smoker who lights up in the morning to get going and then has a
cigarette at the night to unwind).«»
«»
3. The user needs more and more of the substance or activity to reach the
same levels of effect.«»
4. There are psysical and psychological repercussions if the substance or
activity is removed.«»
«»
5. The activity detracts from other areas of life - social or professional.«»
«»
6. If a person re-engages in the activity, even after a long break from it,
they are likely to immeaditely return to the same extreme levels of involvement.«»
«»
«»
«»
«c5»You only have to feel familiar with a few of these signs to be some kind of
an addict. And yes, I admit it... I'm addicted. So what? As long as it's fun,
I don't give a damn if I spend all my time doing it. Now, continue having some
quality time with your favourite computer.«»
«»
«»
«e»

