disc.font,10
«»
«»«ac»
«c1»*** THE FUTURE OF THE AMIGA & THE SCENE ***«»
«»«al»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«»«as»
«c6»This article will concentrate on the new Amiga and how it will effect
the scene.«»
«»
«c5»For the first time in ages, the «c2»future of the amiga is very bright!
«c5»The Amiga has ended in the hands of «c2»real amiga enthusiasts, «c5»and many new
plans have been launched. Instead of continuing the path laid out by Amiga
previously, Amiga has now decided to support the current «c2»amiga users «c5»to let
us all expand our machines to modern standards!«»
«»
It was in late October last year Amiga announced the first «c2»new amiga hardware «c5»in
6 years. And it was also 6 years ago since the last issue of «c2»D.I.S.C.
«c5»got released, so something is definitely happening these days. The first
product from the "new" amiga is called «c2»AmigaONE, «c5»and it will run a single
piece of software named «c2»Amiga Digital Environment (DE). «c5»The Amiga DE has
the ability to host itself on «c2»multiple hardware and operating system
platforms, «c5»which gives us all a chance to chose the hardware that best
suits our needs and taste. Infact, this may bring back some «c2»old sceners
«c5»to our scene as they now can use a PC if they'd like. But the best part is
of course that our «c2»current amigas also can be upgraded «c5»to run Amiga DE
if I have understood this correctly.«»
«»
Anyway, the new specification is following:«»
«»
«c6»- CPU/One AmigaDE friendly host processor (x86, PPC, Arm, SH4, MIPS)«»
- Graphics: Next Generation Matrox graphic chips (probably G800)«»
- Sound: Creative EMU10K1 chip based audio card«»
- RAM: Minimum 64MB«»
- Drives: 10GB+ HD, DVD/CD player (both)«»
- Expansion: 2 free PCI slots, Firewire«»
- Other: 10/100 Mbps Ethernet, 56k modem, USB 1.0«»
«»
«c5»This means that a partner of Amiga, «c2»Eyetech, «c5»will create some products to
achieve the goals mentioned above. With these add-in products, old amiga
machines will have a «c2»modern graphics chip, full classic compatibility,
G3/G4 CPUs and industry standard expansion options. «c5»And the machines will
be able to run the Amiga DE.«»
«»
The first products based on the spesification mention, are «c2»The Amiga One
«c5»1200 PPC and the Amiga One 4000 PPC. These are add-in cards for the classic
A1200 and A4000. They will make use of PPC accelerator cards. These models
will dual both «c2»AmigaOS 3.9, «c5»and the new «c2»AmigaDE. «c5»These cards can infact
also be run without any «c2»A1200 or A4000 «c5»motherboard, but then without the
AmigaOS 3.9 compatilibility. «c2»bplan Gmbh «c5»will make stand alone Amiga One
computers with PowerPC processors. By the way, in AmigaOne, One stands for
it being a «c2»single processor. «c5»As you understand, Amiga will provide
the «c2»new revolutionary software «c5»and their partners the «c2»hardware.
«c5»This is infact great news if you ask me.«»
«»
How will this effect you? Well, the AmigaOne PPC 1200 will be available
as an upgrade for owners of towered A1200 computers and the AmigaONE
PPC 4000 as an upgrade for Amiga 4000 desktop computers in tower conversion
cases. (The upgrade of other amigas will be a subject of demand). Anyway,
this allows us sceners that have invested in the «c2»classic amiga «c5»to continue
using our amigas and also having a «c2»brand new amiga «c5»at our disposal. The
68k processor will be emulated at a substantially increased level via the
PPC processor on the «c2»AmigaONE, «c5»whilst the classic operating system can take
advantage of the AmigaONE's next generation hardware resources. So when
can we get the new «c2»OS3.9? «c5»Your wait is over... as the new OS can be ordered
from the amiga dealers and amiga shops. It was already launched the 4th of
December last year. And the AmigaONE card will come within months.«»
«»
«c6»WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO THE SCENE NOW?«»
«»
«c5»As you all remember the scene changed quite much when the «c2»AGA machines «c5»came
back in 1992. Infact we got a «c2»divided scene «c5»and at the end, the ones that
didn't upgrade, left. And now, the change is much more revolutionary.
Because all computers that have installed the AmigaDE, can use the same
software. This means that the hardware will be very different. And I will
expect the scene to get divided once again.«»
«»
Some sceners will stick to the classic amiga, and «c2»continue making
productions the traditional way. «c5»How many that will stay behind, is too
hard to estimate right now. But I think quite «c2»many won't upgrade «c5»the first
year at least. But if the AmigaONE turns out to be a success, then I guess
the ones continuing using a «c2»68k processor «c5»will not be many. Perhaps as many
as in the current C64 scene? And if these sceners go to the various parties
to compete, there have to be own-classic-amiga competitions or else they'll
meet the same problems as the others, the «c2»compatilibility problem. «c5»I'll come
back to this later on in this article, but I'll just mention the keyword;
«c2»timing!«»
«»
«c5»I'm also pretty sure that some «c2»sceners will leave the scene «c5»if the majority
upgrade their machines with the AmigaOne. Especially the ones that have
been thinking of leaving for a while, the ones that don't spend that much
time on the amiga anymore and of course the ones that don't want to spend
more money upgrading.«»
«»
«c6»But how will the scene with AmigaOne look like?«»
«»
«c5»At first I think only a few groups will join this «c2»new scene. «c5»Just like not
many amiga groups are making «c2»PPC demos «c5»now. However, quite many «c2»amiga
sceners «c5»are also in possesion of a PC and if the software is easy to get or
it won't be too expensive, then I guess many present sceners will at least
be curious on the «c2»new developments «c5»in this new scene. And of course some
will upgrade their current amigas with the buy of the AmigaONE card.«»
«»
Anyway, this opens for a «c2»joint scene. «c5»As so many computers can be used to
produce compatible productions. The amiga scene will perhaps merge with
the PC scene in the future. So the scene will definately grow bigger. It
will become a lot harder to win a competition for instance. But it will
be great as so many will be active. Old amiga sceners now present in PC
groups, will be a part of this new joint scene.«»
«»
However, there will also be some problems with a joint scene. Infact,
there will be «c2»problems «c5»with any computers running AmigaDE! As the new
amiga software will be run on «c2»different hardware, «c5»an obvious problem is
timing. And «c2»timing «c5»is one of the most important things when it comes to
«c2»demo-making «c5»for instance. As the «c2»processor power «c5»is so different from
computer to computer, this will cause many problems. The «c2»speed «c5»of routines
will vary from computer to computer, and if the coding skills are not good
the timing will be a serious problem. The music will perhaps not fit to
the effects for example. Another aspect of the «c2»compatilibility «c5»is that some
productions will require a much «c2»better processor «c5»than our amiga can
provide. Or that some productions become extremely slow and flickering.
These are just some of the problems that may appear with use of «c2»AmigaDE and
AmigaONE.«»
«»
«c6»But how will the future demos look like?«»
«»
«c5»More detailed and boring «c2»3D worlds? «c5»If so, then this is not a change I
would look forward too. Already now we have some 3d demos on PC that are far
better than any amiga 3d world, but still... it's boring! The first 3D
world you see is very impressive, but you'll soon get tired of it.«»
«»
No, I hope the better CPU would be used for making «c2»new stunning effects.
«c5»Don't forget that we'll have «c2»ALOT more RAM «c5»available too.
And besides, the graphics will be of much better quality which will improve
the demos. And even more important is the «c2»new sound card. «c5»No more 4-channel
modules.«»
«»
So all in all, we should be able to «c2»create better productions «c5»as the new
amiga will be «c2»better in all aspects. «c5»Nevertheless, some will still prefer
the good n'old classic amiga and «c2»the new scene «c5»will get some start troubles
because of the compatilibility problems. But then again, there's no reason
why we can't do both; create "classic" productions and new ones with the use
of AmigaONE.«»
«»
After the «c2»new owners «c5»of the Amiga came to an agreement with Gateway the
27th of December 1999 (and had their first day in office the 3th Of January
2000), they have fulfilled all their promises so far. In one year they have given us
two versions of the «c2»SDK «c5»for the new «c2»AmigaDE, «c5»launched «c2»AmigaOS 3.9 «c5»and have made
deals with «c2»bplan «c5»and «c2»Eyetech «c5»to create «c2»AmigaONE. «c5»Now it's perhaps our turn
to give them support with buying their products?«»
«»
In any case, I welcome the «c2»new initiative «c5»from the new oweners of the
Amiga. And lets hope this change will gain both the amiga and our «c2»precious
scene.«»
«»
«c4»Note: Main source of information concerning AmigaONE was gathered from
www.amiga.com«»
«»
«»
«»
«e»

