disc9.font,11
«ac»«»
«c5»*** WHAT CAN WE EXPECT FOR THE SCENE AND THE AMIGA IN 2001? ***«»
«»
«al»«»BY «c3»ZEROX/GODS«»
«as»«»
«c4»At the beginning of the year 2001, there is one question more apparent than
others; What will the Scene and the Amiga bring us this year? As this is
a hard question to answer, I passed it on to 5 well-known sceners,
and here are their answers!«»
«»
«c1»I desperatly hope they will be able to release a new Amiga in
the year 2001 even if it will be based on PC hardware. If not,
it should be all over then. The market in Germany, and Germany
is one of the absolute dominations of Amiga lovers, it`s going
down with each month that passes. If they want to present
a new Amiga for the community, they do it next year or they better
let it be!!!«»
«»
The Scene is alive, even more alive than in the past months. I have
the impression things are going better since a half year, diskmags
come out, or come back as in case with D.I.S.C and there`s
still a fanclub of demolovers which is big enough!! All the work
spend on the Scene is still worth it and it also will be in
2001 but for sure there`s a connection between the commercial
success of our dear computer system and the scene itself. No new
Amiga, no big Scene anymore. But after having a look in the PC
Scene, even if it`s big and prospering: I love how things go
here on our system and there`s no need to change anything!!«»
«»
«c4»Ghandy/DarkAge^Faith^Gods«»
«»
«»
«c1»I would hope to be able to try out the new AmigaOS on the pc I will
presumably buy in 2001. I really don't know what I expect to happen - it
will be something like the scene in 2000, I guess.«»
«»
«c4»Curt Cool/Depth«»
«»
«»
«c1»Well, hope is a better word than expectations concerning the amiga computer. Of 
course it seems
(again) that we are coming, but Amiga disappointed us to often in the past. 
Also three PCI-Boards
will not survive because there are to less active amiga users who would buy 
them! But for "the
last" user it will be something good.
Concerning the scene... By looking back to the prods from 2000 I could see that 
the scene becomes
slowly more quality again. Also by counting the prods of 2000 you will notice 
that it got more
with every new month, so I expect a lot of productions in 2001. Also some of 
high quality. Especially
the diskmag scene will become highly interesting! I guess the members will not 
rise that much,
but not shrink as in the past years. At this point I should make some 
commerials for my ID-Guide
containing a lot of scener's identities - and maybe one day I will have them 
all? - which is
available as Guide and will soon inported to scenet.de as a special section! It 
is like a statistic
for the scene, but I have still a lot to do for it, so please support this 
project.«»
«»
«c4»Zito/DarkAge^Layout^Reason«»
«»
«»
«c1»In 2001, I don't expect much. If Amiga's plans get realized and we get this
new OS, etc., then we will first see a change in the scene around 2002 I
guess. Apart from that, hrmm I don't know. Seems like diskmags will be
better
and that there will be more released than in the last 2 years, but as for
releases, I think it will be the same, maybe a little less. Can't see the big
changes there.«» 
«»
«c4»Darkhawk/IRIS«»
«»
«»
«c1»Regarding the scene, I hope that more people will decide to become a part
of our community. This will lead to more productions being released, and of
course to satisfy the demand for fresh blood. I also hope that swapping
will stay alive and that we can manage taking care of old traditions.«»
«»
When thinking about the Amiga computer in general, I would really like to
see some new machines hitting the streets. It's about time that we get
some new toys to play with. Maybe this also could result in more activity
on the scene in the future.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Punisher/DarkAge^Nah-Kolor«»
«»
«e»

