disc.font,8
«»
«ac»«»
«c2»*** THE D.I.S.C. HISTORY - SO FAR, PART II ***«»
«al»«»
«c3»BY ZEROX/GODS«»
«as»«»
«»
«c1»The D.I.S.C. Team was awaiting the new promising code with all their
ideas to come from Chaos/Sanity, but it never arrived. As we all know,
the fantastic code was given to Zine. That was really a waste. ZINE was
the best mag at that time but Brainstorm were loosing motivation too.
After the release of Zine 11 with the new great code, it was over.«»
«»
The D.I.S.C. Team now got frustrated and fell apart - the joyride
was over. Too bad really because I think the mag could have continued to
bring fun right away with such a great code. It still works on any amiga
I think. In any case, IRIS wanted to try bringing D.I.S.C. back and was
allowed. The other persons involved either joined other teams or gave
up, most people gave up their writing careers.«»
«»
This was the end of the first D.I.S.C. era which had led to much joy for
a lot of faithful readers and some great rankings at the charts. At the
Official Eurochart it never was nr.1 after my memory, but it did came
second after Zine. Cracker Journal faded away and Zine took over. Other
cool mags at that time were News On Tour, Fourth Dimension, ICE, Hackmag,
Stolen Data and more.«»
«»
The special thing about D.I.S.C. was of course all those people from
different groups that united their power to make a mag full of fun.
It started off with some dedicated German sceners and ended up with
support from all over the world. D.I.S.C. always started with those cool
startup texts and continued the fun inside the mag. D.I.S.C. had it all,
from reviews of demos and mags, to scene reports and party reports,
fantasty stories, chatterbox, code-,gfx-, and music courses and all
kind of stories. In every issue different sources were included too.
We remember D.I.S.C. for all their colours and 'life' in the articles
and even some flashing. The demo reviews were good with very nice outlay.
I guess everybody remember the party pictures and comix too.
In those times D.I.S.C. journalists were let in for free at the different
parties to cover the events. Anyway, those times are gone as the old
D.I.S.C. team fell apart...  but the team itself is not forgotten!«»
«»
I would like to thank ALL people that supported those eight issues,
and then especially the main-persons behind the project; JPN, Pincher,
Yankee, Torch, Flinx, Cougar, Snap, Arcadia, CMR, Dr.C, Whitestar, Ken,
Zodiac, Crazy, Paradigm, Duke, Marc, Keo, D.Traumer, Luc de Maroy, 
Condor, Jon, Jonah, Jason, Timetraveller, R0ly and last but not least,
Chris.«»
«»
Yes, as you know it was because of Chris' role in D.I.S.C. and the
support of IRIS which led to IRIS taking over the complete mag when
Chaos decided to give the new source to Zine instead and the fall of
the D.I.S.C. team. However, it took quite many years before D.I.S.C.
once again saw the light of day.«»
«»
A new organisation was started to get a new D.I.S.C. team. New gfx and
new code was of course needed to raise the standard. The two last issues
of D.I.S.C. were not very good and improvements were really needed.
Many coders tried to make a special mag with all kind of features.
One coder even wanted to include an option where you could choose between
different languages. No need to tell you that all coders failed in one
way or another. Then a very special coder called WoLVerine where supposed
to code the mag. He really wanted to code a mag of the future as he said.
Wolverine was a French coder that had very special plans for D.I.S.C.
He wanted to make D.I.S.C. out of 3 programs; A viewer, an editor and
a redactor. The new thing was that the mag was supposed to be fully
multitasking and be harddisk installable. It would also be divided in
the way that those with 1.2,1,3 and 2.0 machines got 16 colours in the
articles and the ones with the new 3,0 got 256 colours. Anyway, the coder
got problems getting one of these new A1200 machines and the rest is
history. I Zerox, never got the new source and couldn't restart D.I.S.C.
which I was supposed to do. Meanwhile IRIS got other mags like Propagation,
E!ffel, Voice and the Inquire if I remember correctly. Chris was the main-editor
of E!ffel, and D.I.S.C. was more or less on ice so to speak. We were trying
to get a new D.I.S.C. coder, but our coder in Norway was not good enough.
In 1992 I sold my amiga and was about to leave the scene completely, but
still had a vage hope of bringing D.I.S.C. back. In June'92 I bought a
new amiga again as I had gotten in touch with some interesting people.«»
«»
Many things happened the next year, we finally began to get some good
members in IRIS Norway. But nothing happened before we got two former
demo coders; Zytrox and Zendar. We released a lot of productions, like
intros and packs... One packmag was the beginning of the new D.I.S.C.
A pack of fun had an ok code, so I asked for a mag code. Both Zytrox and
Zendar coded two seperated systems. Zendar came up with a source which we
used for our internal mag which I made at that time. It has a very special
selector panel as it's hidden. You have to click right mouse button to
see it. Anyway, Zytrox came up with the code for the new D.I.S.C.
The project was very much alive again!«»
«»
Our graphician Bridgeclaw made a lot of different panels, one with a 
special olympic spirit, heh heh. Our musican Eagle made a lot of modules
for D.I.S.C. And the new D.I.S.C. Team started to write. 
At Gathering'94 we had planned to release it, but the code wasn't entirely
finished. But the D.I.S.C. team made some live interviews and started to
gather more information.«»
«»
«»
«»
«c4»ISSUE 9«»
«»
«c1»The 15th of August the same year D.I.S.C. 9 was finally released.
It didn't look like a selector anymore, it didn't have a simple code nor
few articles. It looked like an ordinary mag. Despite of that, the
mag got slaghtered by the other editors around like RokDaZone, MOP,
Uyanik, Macno etc. That almost killed D.I.S.C. back then.«»
«»
D.I.S.C. 9 was coded by Zytrox, gfx by Bridgeclaw and music by Eagle.
The intro was coded by Zendar, gfx by Bridgeclaw and music by Lizardking/Razor.
For the first time in D.I.S.C.'s history, the mag had both a title picture
and an intro. The code had a pretty advanced structure as it was 100%
operative with mouse, keyboard or joystick. But it didn't include many
options.«»
«»
D.I.S.C. 9 was BIG. It contained 204 articles about all kind of topics.
It had a lot of scene articles, interviews, scene-reports, party-reports
and party invitations, reviews, about hardware/software, fantasy corner,
entertainment (a lot of short stories), about cyberpunk, about film and
more. D.I.S.C. 9 had it all, except perhaps quality?«»
«»
It had gone 3 years since the last issue of D.I.S.C. got released, but
issue 9 got a cold welcome. People accused it for not bringing back
the fun, for fooling around with a legend, for bad gfx, bad music, lousy
articles and more.«»
The thing about the bad music and bad gfx I can't understand. Bridgeclaw
was and is a great graphician, which also won the Gathering'95 for instance.
As for the articles, yes most of them were not upto the standard of 1994
with RAW and Upstream ruling the scene. That was my fault. Nevertheless,
I was quite disappointed by the response of the old editors... luckily
the general scene didn't give that hard critics. In the welcome words
I even wrote that the articles weren't very good and that we didn't aim
to be the best, just to finally release D.I.S.C. again. But the critics
killed our motivation then. The first scene related article was about the
group C-Lous called 'C-Lous... An Uprising Group', but the old editors
wrote that nobody wanted to read about such an unimportant group. Well,
D.I.S.C. got right... C-Lous have released a lot of top productions ever since.
I had a feeling that D.I.S.C. got real bad critics because the makers were
members of IRIS (code, gfx, music, about all articles).«»
«»
Anyway, D.I.S.C. issue 9 was not a good D.I.S.C. issue... but compared
to the 7th and 8th issue of D.I.S.C. which also got slaughtered, it
was of course better. Well, the articles were too weak compared to the
leading mags. D.I.S.C. 9 simply wasn't up to date with the mag standard
of that time!«»
«»
E!ffel merged with D.I.S.C. 9. The mag was of course harddisk installable
like mags at that time.«»
«»
The main-persons behind issue 9 was Zerox (main.ed), Chris, Darkhawk,
Gigabyte, Lard and D:ream (co-editors). All were IRIS members, but only
Chris was still left from the original D.I.S.C. team. But also others
played an important role as Sixpack/IRIS, Dr.Deo/IRIS, Bird/IRIS, Joint/
Tonic and Domain/Black Jack. There were of course support from a lot more
IRIS members and some others too.«»
«»
Only a few days before the release of D.I.S.C. I and all the main-persons
(Zytrox, Bridgeclaw, Zendar etc.) quit IRIS and founded Gods. Not many
noticed the secret message in the D.I.S.C. intro nor the news about a new
group.«»
«»
«c4»ISSUE 10«»
«»
«c1»After the terrible critics of D.I.S.C. 9 the motivation to do anything
fell a bit. But after some time we started the making of D.I.S.C. 10.
We wanted new title pictures, new panels, new intro and a greatly improved
code.«»
«»
It took quite some time to get two new title pictures and new panels.
Before we knew it, it was time for The Party 4 with a lot of memorable
productions (like Nexus 7). The scene was probably at its best. The D.I.S.C.
team worked with some articles there, interviewed people and collected
votesheets.«»
«»
The new advanced code was ready with more fonts, very sensitive search-
function, cliparts-routine and more features. I really liked it! It
included all options a top mag should have and then some with the great
seperated systems (mouse, keyboard, mouse). At that time we didn't need
multitasking as D.I.S.C. used all available memory and it was normal with
only a standard A1200 then. Anyway, what we wanted was more colours in
both the panels and the articles + we had quite many ideas for surprising
new features for future issue.«»
«»
The only thing missing for releasing issue 10 - the anniversary issue,
was the intro. Months passed by and we didn't receive it. An internal
disagreement with the coder started and ended with him not being a part
of our group anymore. It was really bad because it seemed like I was
taking the mag more serious than friendship. Anyway, my friend Zendar
finally delivered the intro and some articles he was supposed to correct.
Two days before the release date I even got a new updated mag code also.«»
«»
A few days before the Gathering'95 Gods released the 10th issue of
D.I.S.C. It was April 1995... 8 months had passed from the comeback.
D.I.S.C. 10 was a success, and it seemed like the sceners present at
Gathering liked it very much. I saw the mag at a lot of monitors and
of course got a good feeling.«»
«»
The 10th issue of D.I.S.C. was very updated despite the problems all the
delays had caused. The mag included the normal editorial files in the
welcome section, very updated news and a special focus on the party 4
corner. I was actually pretty proud of that corner as it contained all
we ever wanted to know about that party: reports, reviews of the winner
demo and winner intro, the making of the winner demo and winner intro,
comparison of the party 3 vs the party 4, interview with the winners,
the complete contribution list etc. A very deep analysis which really
told all about that great party. As for the scene corner, it had pretty
many scene articles with good research. Especially one article provoked
a lot. It was called 'We Caught The Eleni Virus Killer'. Some editors
said it was very investigating journalism, on the limit. I also got some
treats after that article. Most of the scene articles were very updated
and showed a good oversight of what was going on in the scene at that
time. D.I.S.C. included many interviews with the hottest sceners at that
time. Most of the interviews were long and in an interview with Christine
De La Queen D.I.S.C. showed a complete new way of making an interview.
The Charts section included the latest changes and told us which were
hot and not. The scene report corner was big with a lot of reports from
many countries. This was something no other mag managed to do because
of their lack of oversight. In the through the looking glass D.I.S.C.
had some very deep analysis of all mags released from December'94 until
the Gathering'95 in April. It was the only time when both ROM, RAW and
Upstream got reviewed at the same time. The 3 best mags ever. There were
also included some other reviews of a game, slideshow and a musicdisk.
Divina Commedia inspired us to make a section with the same name. It
really was a divine comedy with those strange articles.
In our party zone corner we had a party guide, invitations, party
stories and results. D.I.S.C. also included a huge fantasy corner for
all fantasy fans. We also had a few articles from the real music life,
like the latest news, interview with a musician etc. The entertainment
corner included both scene-related short stories and others... yep,
pretty entertaining. Except from that D.I.S.C. only included the usual
commercials and last rubrics.«»
«»
What's left to tell about D.I.S.C. 10? Well, it was a worthy anniversary
issue. It was definately the best D.I.S.C. issue ever with a nice
structure over the articles which there were a lot of. 135 files and
740 pages which we wrote about in the usual startup text. Even though
D.I.S.C. was very fresh it was not perfect. We wanted to introduce some
special features in the issues to come, adding more colours, better
colouring, better formating of the articles etc. In any case, both we and
the sceners were satisfied with that issue.«»
«»
The main-persons of that issue were: 
Zytrox the coder of the mag, Bridgeclaw the graphian and the musicians
Chromag and Shock. The coder of the intro, Zendar, was also very important
together with Bridgeclaw as said and the musician C-Quence. As for the
writing it was Zerox (main.ed), Chris, Christine/Spoon and Darkhawk/IRIS
(all co.eds) + the regular supporters; Sixpack, Pantera, Joint, Zendar(Gods),
Domain/Saints, Sting/Alcatraz, Skinner, Dr.Deo/exxON and of course all
guest editors.«»
«»
«»
«c4»ISSUE 11«»
«»
«c1»The D.I.S.C. Team was very motivated after the release of issue 10, and
started almost right away with the new issue. We fast got a lot of
support and had enough good articles to release another issue in the summer.
But that didn't happen. The coder was busy with a slideshow called A Few
Good Men, and didn't start coding anything for D.I.S.C. before after the
summer holidays. That was not the problem at that time. We needed gfx,
and Bridgeclaw made a new detailed panel and a title picture. The only
thing missing were the headline cliparts, other cliparts and some fixing
of the gadgets. We received a lot of modules from a lot of good musicians.
Time went by and we never got the promised gfx. Bridgeclaw had two jobs
and a girlfriend, so the amiga didn't get 1st priority. Besides, he only
wants to draw pictures. The Party 5 arrived, and we asked a few graphicians
there to make new gfx for D.I.S.C. (mainly the cliparts), but noone had
time nor wanted to do it. The Party 5 was rather disappointing and I was
getting tired of the scene. The motivation was certainly falling. Then Gods
got new graphicians, one after another was supposed to make the gfx. No need
to tell you all of the new graphicians failed and were kicked out the group.
Meanwhile the new D.I.S.C. intro had arrived too.
During these times I met Lord Helmet at my school and got more inspiration
to write again. It was great writing together with him as he always had
a lot of good ideas and because he's one of the nicest persons I've ever
met. Lord Helmet was asking about D.I.S.C. all the time and I was telling
it was in progress... he was giving me a hard time telling D.I.S.C. was
dead but I wouldn't admit it. Well, I had to proove him wrong. I knew a lot
of editors wanted to write for us after issue 10, so support wouldn't be
any problem. Even Lord Helmet promised to write for D.I.S.C. He got a bit
more active again and even wrote an article or two for R.A.W. 9. Afterwards
we wrote some articles for RAW 10. You know, from The Party 5 months just
passed by with no progress at all since all these graphicians failed.
Summer of 1996 arrived, and I joined the army. I kept in touch with the
scene and with Lord Helmet. Gods got another graphician named Wade, and
he was willing to do the new gfx. I lost contact with the D.I.S.C. coder
which by the way had got a girlfriend and moved. He also got married.
Late September 2000 he got a baby too. Congratulations Zytrox!
I and Lord Helmet wrote a text and released a commercial D.I.S.C. intro
in November'96. Brainwasher/Eremation said he could code everything we
wanted. It was really outstanding news. 1997 arrived...  Sixpack was getting
people to work and was in touch with people as I couldn't. Gathering'97
arrived and I was so inspired by the new events that I even visited that
party. I saw the great work of our new graphician Typhoon and our demo.
Well... I of course got most impressed by the demos of TBL and Artwork.
Anyway, I went back to the army but had written a list of all features
I wanted for D.I.S.C.  Some time afterwards the panels were finished and
Optic (in TRSI at that time - now DCS/Talent PC) promised to do the clipart
headlines. After the summer holidays
everything was finished , except from some animations we requested. Brainwasher
got everything he needed to finish the source, and he started to code even though
he was very busy with his own company. In March 1998 we got a working preview.
The graphics were included, but the code had a few bugs. Also the special
features were missing. Brainwasher promised to include the rest and fix the
few bugs. But time went by and we didn't hear anything. Again and again we
asked for the source, and again and again we got the promise that he would
send it. After September we didn't hear from him again. We was hoping he had
finished it or at least was about to finish it, but feared the worst. Our
suspision was correct, Brainwasher never had finished the last parts. He more
or less faded away from the scene. Again the D.I.S.C. Team was without a source
and a coder. We were destroyed, and I was really beginning to doubt D.I.S.C.
would ever see the light again. In this period I got depressed and wanted to
leave the scene as well, and I did that for a few weeks also but returned.
I began to write for some other mags instead,
mainly JP but of course tried to have some hope for the return of D.I.S.C.
In early 1999 a miracle happened; Modem agreed to code D.I.S.C! I was of course
extremely happy. We exchanged a few emails and I found the old gfx again and
sent it to him. The plan was to insert the gfx in the ST based code. But things
took time as Modem also was very busy with his sucessful software company.
Nevertheless, I was very happy to have a coder again and even released another
D.I.S.C. commercial intro called Believe In D.I.S.C. at the Scene Meeting'99.
But Modem became too busy with all his projects, so he handed over the D.I.S.C.
project over to another coder, his name was Cupid. And Cupid is also the one who
finally managed to give us a fully working source, and which is willing to
develop the code to new heights. Some very special changes should appear in the
next issue. Time will tell if we succeed!«»
«»
And now... the show must go on!!! JPN had a dream that D.I.S.C. was still
alive in the year 2000. We have tried to fullfil his dream and go
beyond that. In any case, you're now reading the 11th issue of D.I.S.C. -
The Mag For True Scene Freaks!!!«»
«»
«»
«e»

