disc9.font,11
«ac»«»
«»
«c1»*** PHOTOCELL 1X1 - REVIEW ***«»
«al»«»
«c3»BY SLAYER/APPENDIX«»
«as»«»
«c2»...And  we have the precedent.  Surely for the «c5»first time on Amiga scene «c2»we
have the situation, when appears production, which had it's premiere on the
PC scene.«»
«»
I'm  talkin'  about «c5»"Photocell 1x1" «c2»by Anadune and Mawi groups - an another
Polish  slideshow.   The  man  behind  "Photocell  1x1"  is  «c5»Kazik, «c2»and the
production  embraces his gfx creations from years 1996-1999, enough diverse
both  in respect of technical, as and artistic.  Already at the first sight
will  become  visible,  that  to  graphic artist close is a Japanese comics
aesthetics  (Manga).   Most  of  paintings  are  the  products  of  Kazik's
imagination,  however experienced eye will fish up several "redrawed" pics,
and  unfortunately  this fact isn't univocally explained.  To my favourites
belong:   "Landlady"  -  for  more  than  accurately  well-chosen  palette,
"Anadune-WWW"  - the Internet site created on the ground of this drawing is
really excellent, "Elf-Main" for an original idea.  At description of style
and  technicses the author of "Photocell 1x1" offer constantly analogies to
Lazur - for one spectators can be this in plus, for other on the contrary.«»
«»
Slideshow  traditionally  precedes an intro.  Saddens only his laconicism,
and  well-known  logo  "Mawi"  -  that  we've  seen  in  two  other  Mawi's
productions.   Hey!   Make  somethin'  fresh!  At main-menu greet us..  the
scroll.   Yeaah, an old, good effect, already a little forgotten today, but
harm.   Unfortunately  it's  heavily  to  take pleasure from scroll-reading
because  of at least three reasons:  indistinct fonts, lack of polish signs
(scroll  is  in  polish language) and what is the most important:  terrific
boredoms  striking  from  it.  If this issue of Showtime reads somebody who
reached  to the end of scroll, I bring him in prize a pack of truffles or I
will eat for disbelief a raw makrella...  (arggghhh..).  ;-)«»
«»
Over  the  scrolling text it's put the panel with selectors:  Exit, All and
Select.   Destination of the two first gadgets is self-evident, third shows
us  only  an  interesting  picture,  after  previous pressing an icon which
symbolizes  it.   Right mouse button shows the titles of works and the full
credits.   I  have reservations to the fact, that pictures are changing TOO
FAST - "thanks it" it's heavily to watch them longer.«»
«»
Music  is composed by «c5»SOL.  «c2»Soundtrack is well-kept in fashionable today on
scene  ambient-climate.   About  loam  at  the  beginning music can perhaps
oneself to please, because to state only a background for intro, but during
readings  that  "unhappy"  scroll it begins to make nervous because of it's
monotony.   Code  executed  by  «c5»Kierownik «c2»is nice as always - it means it's
system friendly - (without problem on gfx and music cards) and aesthetical.«»
«»
Production  will  appeal  in  the  most Manga and Lazur's style of graphism
lovers.   «c5»"Photocell  1x1"  «c2»should  also  watch  the possessors of graphics
cards,  whiches  complain  (and  rightly!), that so little scene things can
they enjoy.«»
«»
«c4»Slayer/Appendix«»
[ Taboo Staff ]«» 
slayer@optimus.wroc.pl«»
«»
«c2»Ps.   in case of problems with staring "Photocell 1x1" check the version of
your dbplayer.library (you need ver.  2.0).«»
«»
«»
«e»

