disc.font,9
«ac»«»
«»
«c2»*** SPLATTERHEAD'S SCENE HISTORY ***«»
«as»«»
«c3»BY SPLATTERHEAD/EX.SCOOPEX«»
«»
«c4»Introduction«»
---------------«»
«»
«c1»I  want  to remember  (now  March  2000)  some  old things, (good old times :) what
happened  in my life the in past.  And now time after time I have time to write
about  the scene  and  everything, I just do it for fun.  I was asked during my
swapping  time  to write something to diskmags, but I was so lazy and quite busy
with  swapping  so  I never wrote to diskmags etc.  Anyway those years I haven't
got much to say, and maybe then there was so less time to think.«»
«»
Nonscener probably don't understand magic of scene and maybe I don't even try to
explain,  so  this  is  to them probably boring.  I hope you like my (un)perfect
english  (blame my english teachers if there are errors, I have learned words from
movies  and  TV series and during swapping time so there are probably lotsa errors =
wrong  words).   Anyway  I'm just a thinking animal, very unperfecto.  I hope this
text give something to somebody, something to think about?!«»
«»
Somebody  could  say, why the hell dig old things?  Maybe just because I want
to get
them  off  my  mind...heart...  Ok I agree that it's nice rewind nostalgia tape
what's  in  my  head and play again (again, again and again), when chatting with
old Amiga friend, but this time, I do it by writing.«»
«»
I  know  that  there's  (or  was) also a C64 scener with the same handle (I heard
about  that  in  year  1997?),  but I have been only in Amiga scene and I'm from
Finland.«»
«»
Just early warning about this text, it is really chaotic...  like my mind...  no
order except disorder...«»
«»
«»
«»
«c4»Like a virgin - 1st touch«»
------------------------«»
«»
«c1»Beginning... I was born 1974...«»
Ok, I skip...«»
«»
Computers have been big part of my life since 1984.«»
«»
First  touch  to  computers  was  probably  in  beginning of eighties and it was
Spectrum  ZX,  when  dude  from  same house give some minutes play time.  My
brother  Akiro  almost  got Spectrum ZX for 1st computer to us, but it broke, :(
before we bought that.«»
«»
Before  that  I  was  wondering  about Aquarium computer what was in supermarket
called  Eka (now as Euromarket how stupid name ;).  And I also saw some pictures
of Sharp computer in papers, but them was extremely expensive.«»
«»
«»
«»
«c4»MSX - 1st computer«»
------------------«»
«»
«c1»So  it take some time and it was 1983 Christmas and we (me and brother Akiro got
MSX  Canon  V-20.  MSX was a cool computer and me and brother played quite much.
Even  there  was  not so much games for MSX, and we don't have so much money for
games.  But in same street was Niementö brothers they owned MSX Spectravideo 738
and we got some module games from them.  I remember that very good when Tomi came
to  visit,  it was Friday and he give us Nemesis game for weeks at least, what a
kewl game.«»
«»
Module  games were nice, no loading time and quality was better too, all of them
was  under  label  Konami.   Probably best game/games was that Nemesis and later
brother bought Nemesis 3 with amazing 1-2mb of data in module and we player hard
(lotsa  Quickshot  joysticks braked and I tried to fix them), and finally we saw
congratulations  animation  in  end which was really great.  Others games what I
remember  was HyperSports series 1-3 and we have even special joystick for that.
Brother  was  very  good  in  Yier  Kung  Fu  game, that was very nice game too.
Sometimes  at  least  me  was  dreaming  a  bit about C64, but never bought that
anyway,  because no money.  But once (maybe for few weeks) brother's friend give
C64  for  us  to  play,  when  we  give  MSX  for  him to play.  I remember that
California  games  was  very  nice  C64 game and it was fun to play only in C64.
Other  versions  like  MSX were terrible, also Amiga version missed some feeling
about that magic.«»
«»
With MSX I even wrote ("coded") basic code.  hmm...  just copied them from books
( how lame :).  I just learned use only "print" command.  :)«»
«»
1985  came  also  1st  VCR to apartment called Fisher.  I was computer freak and
then I became also vidiot.«»
«»
Later  when  I  thought that time 1984-1985 life changed quite heavily because I
spend  so  much  time with computer.  I lost two friends probably because of MSX
and  VCR,  or  were  they  friends?  They were jealous because of me having that
equipment  and they not, I'm not sure maybe there was something else wrong, too,
different  chemicals in heads.  I agree that I'm bitter about it went like this,
I  didn't  even realise that so much except years later.  Sometimes I was lonely
because of dead friendships.  But anyway I got much time to think.  Maybe that's
why  I'm  now thinker person but not social animal.  Ok enough about childhood's
traumas.  ;)«»
«»
«»
«c4»Commodore Amiga 500«»
-------------------«»
«»
«c1»Time  was  running  fast.  It was 1987 and Mikrobitti review of Amiga 500 was in
issue 6/7 1987.  And I was dreaming about it.  Big but was that it cost so much.
In that same time there was also Atari ST and it cost almost same and specs were
also same kind of.«»
«»
«»
«c4»When dreams come true...«»
------------------------«»
«»
«c1»So  then  came  year  1990 and it was March, when A500 arrived to apartment with
1084  monitor (mono speaker version) and 0,5mb fast memory.  Later I bought also
Star  LC-10  colour  printer  for  it.  A500 was the better choice than Atari ST
because here and there were more Amiga users than Atari ST users.  And there was
less ST software than Amiga.«»
«»
Of  course  Amiga was amazing with 1mb memory and disk drive short loading time.
Games came with better graphics, sound, playability and there were more choices.
But  not  just  only games, there were text editors (Cygnus ED great!) and paint
programs  (Deluxe  Paint  great!)  etc.   (with  MSX  I  wrote (from book) paint
program, but there was no save option ;) Probably our 1st game was Kick Off.  We
were  playing much Defender of the Crown and I have to soon buy new mouse called
Golden Image and it was brilliant long life time over 8 years and still working.«»
«»
In  beginning we played also much TV Sports Basketball, we have tournaments with
local  amigists.   Brother  played  also  Kick Off, Superstar Ice-hockey and NHL
Hockey and football manager games.«»
«»
In  beginning  I tried to draw something with DeluxePaint and them were quite ok
for me then (now I awful grafician), but I stopped that soon.  And tried to make
music  too  (=noise)  with  SoundFX  and  Oktalyzer.  I even bought SoundPerfect
sampler  what was almost useless later for me, because I wasn't really musician.
I was thinking also to buy gray handyscanner but never bought that.«»
«»
I  played games much more with MSX.  With Amiga I almost totally stopped playing
games.   In  beginning  I  played  Amiga games, but then I lost interest.  I did
mostly  something  else  like  making packs, swapped and watched demos etc.  for
scene  use.  Only sometimes I played pinball games, chess or multitasking tetris
called Zetris.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Early "scene" time«»
------------------«»
«»
«c1»It  was  very  nice  when here local town were so many Amiga users.  I got lotsa
contacts (that was nice) because of Amiga and that's why phone was ringing quite
often, I remember Saturdays best.  Beginning '90; Kimmo, Tommi, Zax, Tomi, Jani,
Perttu  (OlhoSeco  later  Darkfire),  Gary  Steel,  Paperboy, Dave, Jack Slader,
Mac(=G-sus,  later  Cheesus),  The  Hooligan, Claustro, GMB, Dr.poop, Bootlegger
visited  my place, lotsa others too but just cannot remember their names.  Later
regular  visitors  were Bootlegger, Darkfire, Cheesus and The Hooligan which was
of course fucking great.  Incognito was my 1st mail contact in Finland.«»
«»
First touch to scene product was in spring '90, when I got Scoopex demodisk from
school friend, there were cool demos and I watched them again and again.  One of
those demos used nice Shadow of the Beast game routines.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1st group - Ghosteam«»
--------------------«»
«»
«c1»It  was  '91  (?)  when  I start to build some kind of group.  And it was called
Ghosteam  (how  clever  name  ;) and in beginning I made huge pile of gamepacks.
Somewhere  in  time  I  bought PerfectSound sampler.  And Akiro brother, Wizard,
Sykero and Dr.Death (even he was not interesting about joining) joined to group.
We  made  some  demos  =  or digipacks.  Some digisounddisks with some digitized
sound and some graphics and some demostuff made with Avesoft demomaker (lame ;).
Productions were two disk digidemo Star Trek Next Generation and some other like
Bat&Ryyd's  Lentävä puliukko and some other where was Juice's some song and some
disk  where  was Stone's songs.  Them was spread to only few dudes.  (lucky them
;)  My  handle  was  then Hercules (I was bodybuilder in that time) or YamYam (I
think I was ate too much Jacky-makupala yoghurts when I used that handle).«»
«»
About  case of Atari ST a bit, we were living 3rd floor and owned Amiga and also
2nd  floor there was Dr.death who owened Amiga, but in 4th floor there was Atari
ST  user  (who  was  later  Wizard of Ghosteam).  We read Wizzcat's Crazy Comics
(Perverse  Slides was also great ;) and laughed to Ataris user(s).  Later Wizard
also  bought  Amiga and tried to be elite.  But we found his true lameness, when
we  saw  another  Kefrens demo.  Ghosteam had made demo and there was "Wizard's"
module,  exact  same  song  was  also in Kefrens demo.  Wizard explained that he
didn't  remember  that  he  wasn't  composer  of  module.  ;) Lameness took him!
Anyway in beginning probably almost everyone is lame.  ;)«»
Ghosteam never actually died, it just vanished, when I or/and we lost interest.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Beginning of mailswap«»
---------------------«»
«»
«c1»After  that  ('91?)  if  I remember right came time when swapping started a bit.
Dr.poop  send some contact letters to foreign countries and got even one contact
from  Norway called Nirvana.  And we, me and Dr.poop later rent P.O.Box for swap
purpose.   About  Nirvana, it was funny because we never didn't know was Nirvana
group  or  person,  because  he  or them didn't understand so much english.  And
sensible  conversation  in  letters was quite impossible with them.  P.O.Box was
anyway  quite  useless  thing  for  us,  because  we  have  only  three contacts
Incognito,  Nirvana  and  Slag from Finland.  Later we chance Nirvana to another
contact  from Norway called Stranger of Affix because Nirvana dude or dudes were
quite  lame,  disks  was total trash when we got them and they didn't understand
english.   And  quite soon after that we dropped P.O.Box because we got troubles
by  toll office.  They think we are going to do some business.  And it was quite
impossible  to  explain  that we was swapping freeware, public domain, shareware
stuff, stuff what didn't cost anything, but they (toll office) didn't understand
it,  or  didn't  care, and I wasn't interesting to go every fucking time to toll
office  to  explain.   Trouble  was  because  stupid Norwegian swapper put green
ticket  to  envelope  and didn't write to there how much that things=disks cost.
And I think it was quite impossible explain to that swapper that write that toll
ticket  perfectly  because they don't care or understand english so we drop him.
Same  problem came also three times later because stupidity of some swappers and
it was driving me crazy.  That's enough about it.«»
«»
«»
«c4»2nd group - Black Jack«»
----------------------«»
«»
«c1»Our P.O.Box was named to Black Jack and Nirvana think that it was our group name
and  so  on  we  didn't tried to explain anything again, we just kept name Black
Jack  to  us  group  name.   So  like  that we got name Black Jack.  If I really
remember  right  we were founding members Dr.poop and me (my handle was Hercules
or  YamYam  then).   When  year  changed  to  '92  I  change  also  my handle to
Splatterhead.   About  my  handle, I take it from band called Accused which made
song  called  Return  of  the  Martha Splatterhead.  Perttu (Darkfire) gave that
cassette  for  me,  he  was supporting me with his death metal, grind core, doom
metal etc.  tapes.  Music listening was going to be less of part of my life when
I  found Amiga's true wonderful magic power ('90) and it took me.  And it became
main hobby for me.«»
«»
We  got  more  members  one  of 1sts was brother Akiro as swapper, Gary Steel as
musician,  Grand Master B = GMB as musician, Mac (G-sus later Cheesus) as coder.
Me  and  Dr.poop  was  only  swappers.   If I remember right 1st productions was
musicdisks  with  ascii  menu called Steelsongs 1 and 2, I compiled them October
1992.   There  was  mainly  Gary Steel's songs but also some Perttu's (Olho Seco
later Darkfire) megalomaniac songs like Patareni.«»
«»
And  later  we  got more and more members like Domain from Denmark as editor and
swapper,  Mare  from  Finland as coder, POW from Norway as musician, Stevie from
Sweden  as  grafician  and  Janitor,  Light,  Mice, Yab, Danny Kane, Claustro ?,
Stimpy,  Blitzer,  Barf ?, Incognito, Danny Kane, Digitizer ?, Grapic, Raivo and
maybe  some others but I just cannot remember anymore.  In "best" time we had 17
members.   And  one  day  I  got  pissed and kick most of foreign members, seven
members in one day.  And later I kicked more foreigners and Dr.poop, Mare, Light
?   and  Yab!   ?.   Foreigners  were so lazy and made ugly stuff and were quite
useless.  Dr.poop made some business and I didn't like it, so kicked.  Mare made
ugly  asm  code  so  I kicked him, he was beginner in coding, few years later he
made good code and he joined to Zenon.«»
«»
Anyway  it  was  nice time with Black Jack group, we made lotsa products.  I was
compiling  Black  Jack  demolibdisks,  250 was last number of them I think maybe
there  was  even  more of them (them was not spread so much, just copied for few
dudes).  G-sus (Cheesus) made (coded with amos) lotsa prods for Black Jack like:
We  hate  your intros, very nice Pasi intro with cool song, Steelsongs, WormsWar
game  etc.  I probably made more or less than 500 packdisks (madness) during '90
-  '95.   I  stopped pack making after '95?  because I have no time to make them
(or  interest) and anyway I got harddrive and vbs, so disks (free diskspace) was
not so important anymore.«»
«»
Me and Akiro and Domain were also responsible about Blaggy #1 diskmag, where was
amazing  500 swapperadverts, Akiro wrote swapper normal day article and compiled
news  section  etc.   Domain  wrote  articles and finally Blaggy #1 was ready to
spread.  Blaggy was made with diskmag creator called Magnum and Magnum was coded
with amos.  But who cares inside of mag should be main point.«»
«»
«»  
«c4»1st parties«»
----------«»
«»
«c1»In  beginning of 1994 there was Gurulandia BBS party in Nuorisokeskus, there was
me, Akiro, Dr.poop and GMB and lotsa people who I don't know.  There I meet also
1st  time  Tweeter  and Frank.  Akiro and Dr.poop got some friends from PC users
because  of  party.   And I think that's why also in year 1994 spring/summer was
Black  Jack's and PC group's party in Nuorisokeskus / 8-sali Sammonkatu in Lahti
City.   That  party  was  called Ladojen kokoontumis ajot.  Dr.poop spread quite
well  invitation  with  his  US  Robotics  Sportster  14.4k.   He got quite nice
reputation as trader.  And there in party was visitors about 100 or more.  Party
place  was  free  for  us and we don't charge any entrance fee.  Even well known
sceners  came  to  place like from Complex, CNCD, Damones, Accession, Exotic Men
etc.   Party  was  not  so well organised (who cares ;) but anyway party animals
liked?)  and  competitions  was  not  going so well, but graphics competition we
managed to do, winner was Reward of Complex.  Now years after party it felt nice
experience.   But  there was problems because I was only official guard what was
in  party area, others just vanish or didn't come to place.  Booze was not allow
at  8-sali,  but  it  was  impossible  to check everybody.  But anyway no bigger
chaos,  just  only one broken window and trashy toilet room.  :) Black Jack made
also  party  slideshow.   Later  8-sali  saw  also Motorola Inside ('97 and '98)
parties  what  were  Amiga  only parties.  There was too Scenario parties ('95 -
'97?) in Lahti, but there were also PC computers allowed.«»
«»
Party time again. Assembly party August 1994 in Helsinki, Finland. Best memory
from there was Amiga winner intro called G-force by Pygmy Projects, it was
amazing. That was AGA time, AGA chipset showed its power. Amiga demos were best.
There I met my swap contacts Janitor, Maniac, Hunter etc. There also have been
built thing = group called Spedes, if I understand/remember right. I wasn't
never member of Spedes. ;) Spedes, yes I like/liked that group because their
prods were for fun and funny, not so much hard quality.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1993 - 1994 real swapping and Amiga demoscene took me«»
-----------------------------------------------------«»
«»
«c1»Earlier I told about beginning of swapping, when we (me and Dr.poop) owned 
P.O.Box.«»
«»
Later, it was probably beginning of 1993 when I got my 1st foreign mail contact.
Incognito send to me some kind of diskmag and I took few swappers addresses from
it  and send some stuff to them.  Lucky me I even got answer from Octon / Midway
who  was  from  Sweden and he send few disks and swapping started.  It was quite
difficult  because  he was my only real swap contact and it was quite impossible
me to get 0-7 days stuff to send to him and soon he dropped me (he owned modem).
G-sus  gave  me  Raw  diskmag or I got it from Incognito and I saw more possible
contacts in swapper advert section of mag.  I contacted few swappers; Jam Raddox
from  Finland  (he just send letter only two times to me :( ), Kopara / Mad Elks
from  Poland and Rod / Polaris from Croatia and probably some others too and got
answers.«»
«»
1993 autumn, I got Analog's packmag called Nevermind preview and there was lotsa
swap  ads  and  I contacted more swappers, because I want to be something (Amiga
freak,  respected  swapper).   I  want  to  be  part  of scene, I want be belong
something.   And  then  I  do it 100%.  And I got more and more contacts, that's
really  started  autumn  1993.   In winter 1994 I have got about 80 contacts all
over  Europe.   Most of my contacts was from foreign countries from Europe, only
0,1%  was  from  Finland.   I  was  mainly  swapping 0-7 days old demos, intros,
slides, diskmags, musicdisks etc.  demoscene stuff.«»
«»
Yeah...   swapping  was  cool...   I  got  elite  feeling, when I got stuff from
foreign countries.  It feel good when foreign dudes want swap with me.  :) I was
very  glad  when  I got envelopes from foreign countries and open them and check
what  I  got.   It  was very cool to get new demos.  Maybe I can say excitement,
when  getting  envelopes  (like  Christmas, when opening presents in childhood).
And  many  times  I  wake  up  like this, when I heard postman's noises and when
envelopes  mashed  to  my  floor.   Then  I  run  like mad to front door, I took
envelopes  from  floor  and run back to my room and gave some power to my lovely
amy  and  watch  what  I  have got (new cool demos) and kewl letters.  :) and of
course I was happy.«»
«»
«»
«c4»One of my real 1st swapmates was:«»
«»
«c6»Rod  /  Polaris  from  Croatia,  it was really nice surprise when I got 6 months
later  his envelope for me.  Why so late?  Because there was war in Croatia.  He
wrote always nice and long letters.«»
«»
Kopara / Mad Elks from Poland, kewl dude with long letters.«»
«»
Chaos  / Desire from Germany, I remember antinazi swap advert, there was in this
time  also  antinazi demos in scene.  I remember his quality letters with design
and his ascii logos.«»
«»
Wiza  /  Diffusion  from  Finland, short great crazy letters with attitude, what
gave  laughs,  once  he  send to me peanuts, I send to him toys.  He making joke
about our Black Jack group, because it was condom label.  ;)«»
«»
«c1»End  of 1994 or beginning of 1995 I left Black Jack and joined to Analog.  Why I
joined  to Analog, it was probably because it was well known and better at least
I  think  so  then.   Good  points  in  Black  Jack  was  productivity.   Anyway
"reputation"  of  Black  Jack  was  not so good because our prods was coded with
amos.   Black  Jack  died  quite  soon  after  that  if I remember right.  G-sus
(=Cheesus)  and  Weirdo  joined  Innocence afterwards and G-sus also made Spedes
prods.«»
«»
Commodore  also  died  year  1994, that was shock.  I was very angry when seller
from  local computer store said that there never come A1200 computers anymore to
shop  because  Commodore  went  bankrupt.   I  believed very long time that some
company continues Commodore's work, but lost that faith totally 1999, when I got
notice that there's not coming new Amiga again.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1995«»
----«»
«»
«c1»Beginning  of 1995.  Dr.poop was modemscener.  Akiro dropped his swap activities
too,  he  was  traded earlier a bit with 2400bps modem approx.  10mb.  Akiro and
Dr.poop  got "offer" about bbs running.  Phone line rented and our apartment got
elite  bulletin  board  system  with  one node.  Board was running in start with
a1200,  but  later  a4000  software  was Amiexpress later Sigmaexpress.  Akiro &
Dr.poop  were  sysops.   I still swapped like hell.  I`ve left Analog because of
bad  organising  and  joined to Triflex + Addonic, what was bad choice too, when
they  was so inactive.  I leave T + A and joined to polish Flying Cows Inc.  FCI
was quite productive group.  Zibi / FCI was not happy in phone, when I said that
I  have  joined  to Scoopex.  But when Scoopex let me join, that was like dreams
come  true.   Of  course legendary reputation of Mental Hangover demo was one of
reasons  and  Scoopex  was respected group and older than many other scene group
(found  1988).   And  of  course slogan Generations Ahead was cool.  I lost some
motivation  for  swapping, because I got almost every demoscene productions from
board.   2nd  reason  for  motivation  lost  was  because  I was quite lovesick.
Akiro's and Dr.poop's board went down in autumn 1995 because of phonebillys.  :(
BTW!   In beginning of 1995 I rent P.O.Box, and spring 1995 I bought second hand
A1200.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1996«»
----«»
«»
«c1»Year  1996,  I  was  getting  lazier  for  swapping too because of lovesick.  In
beginning  of  1996  bbs was running for a while but I put phone line off when I
think it cost so much and there was not coming enough stuff to board, reason why
not,  was  that because there was no change to dial with modem even local calls.
Summer  1996  Olho Seco (=Darkfire) bought modem and I help him to start trading
and  soon  he traded like hell.  That summer we also built his bbs with daydream
bbs  soft.   Sad  that  his  hd  crashed and bbs was gone forever (I was deleted
backups  too  from  my  hd  of  course.  Anyway bbs was not so much online, just
mainly for test purposes because phone line was used also for voice chats.  Then
when  I got most of demos from Olho Seco (and faster), I was getting too lazy to
swap.«»
«»
I left Scoopex because they did not make so much prods.  I joined to Fanatic.  I
leave  Fanatic when it was going to die and I joined to Intruders.  Them was not
productive  and  I joined to Freezers.  Somehow I got pissed to them too, I just
cannot  remember  what  was  reason,  when I leave them too.  I joined to Eltech
which  was  friendly  group.  Then I leave Eltech.  I joined back to Scoopex and
said that I want only to be in Scoopex and I don't want to change anymore group.
I think that was year 1997 when I rejoined to Scoopex.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1997«»
----«»
«»
«c1»Year  1997,  I was lazy also then when I got stuff from Olho Seco.  Beginning of
1997  I bought HP CD-R for A1200 and start to collect amyCDs.  Surprise was that
I  got  better  and better positions in Eurocharts and Ram Jam Charts as swapper
even that I was such a slow swapper.  This year's summer I built home-made tower
case for A1200 from PC tower, using drill and metal saw.«»
«»
«»
«c4»About swapping«»
--------------«»
«»
«c1»"Swap  or  die"  like  there was in Budbrain's Megademo.  I must agree that best
swapping  time  was  '93  - '94, after that I got so much contacts that sensible
letter  write  to  everybody was impossible, because no time.  Those early years
'93  -  '94  most of swappers and me wrote paper letters and that was I think so
much  more  personal.   But  it  came  impossible  lately  because I got so much
contacts  so I have to write/save letters to disks.  In best time I got everyday
at  least  one  envelope, normally 1-10 envelopes in day, in week I got about 25
envelopes.   Best  day  was when I got 13 envelopes.  Best years I got about 1-3
new  contacts  in week, because I spread my adverts quite well to diskmags and I
was  enough crazy to answer everybody because I want more and more contacts.  In
beginning  I  answered  to contacts soon as possible.  Time was flying when days
went writing letters and copying disks.  If I have about month delay, I got huge
pile  of  envelopes.   I remember that many times, when I have plastic bag where
was about 90 envelopes and filled yellow post-box with them.  And there was some
day  when  I  wrote letters about nine hours without any brakes.  Probably after
that  kind  of  sessions  I  give up and write standard letter and short or long
personal part depends on time and energy.  And before end times I made that ugly
thing  what I hated, I just wrote only standard letter without personal part.  I
just was tired to swapping, but not wanted to stop it.«»
«»
Everyone  (modemtraders)  didn't "respect" so much swappers or maybe I just felt
like  that.   Example group would be like:  coder, musician, grafician, swapper.
All of them are "working" for group when it "produce" intros, demos, slideshows,
musicdisks etc.  Example coder got idea and start to code demo, musician compose
song  for  it,  grafician  drawn  graphics  for it, and last link is swapper who
spread  demo  using post.  Swapper copy lotsa disks, buy stamps, envelopes, lick
stamps  and write letters and send group's new demo soon as possible to his (10-
100)  mailswapcontacts.  Group "system" is quite good for swapper, anyway I have
been  sometimes  independent,  that's  possible but I liked to belong something.
There  was  years ago "do we need swappers?" articles in diskmags, someone wrote
that  it's  easy  swap  be a swapper.  But really it's not, it's hard "job".  Of
course  own  group  don't  produce  so often demos so "have to" swap other group
demos for a while.  Charts was quite nice thing too for swappers, it's of course
nice to see if get nice position in Ram Jam's Charts or Eurocharts or some other
charts.   My personal records if I remember right was in Ram Jam's Charts hmm...
4th  or something and in Eurocharts 2nd I'm not really sure about those.  Anyway
I  never  was 1st.  Someone could ask, is competition important?  Of course it's
not  main point, but anyway it's nice to see own name in charts.  Competition is
primitive habit.«»
«»
«»
«»
«»
«c4»About demos«»
-----------«»
«»
«c1»Demo  =  demonstration:   a  product  which contains sound, moving graphics etc.
Somebody  who  is not in scene maybe can say that them are "multimedia artworks"
If  I  remember  right 1st trackdemo=demo what I saw was Fashion's Fashionating.
1st  demodisk  was  Scoopex  demodisk 90?.  I remember best those old demos from
early  '90  like  Red  Sector's  Megademo,  Budrain Megademo, Alcatraz's Odyssey
(45min  long),  Anarchy's  Digital  Innovation, Mad Elks' Technological Death (I
think  this  is  best  demo ever), Spaceballs' State Of the Art, Silents' Global
Trash,  Hardwired  etc.   what  was working with A500.  About AGA demos; I can't
remember  so  much  names  of them, but I remember which groups made good demos,
Virtual  Dreams, Pygmy Projects, TBL, TLE, Artwork and from later years '97-'99?
Floppy,  Venus  Arts,  polish  groups made best demos (very strong scene always)
just  few  what  I mention.  Maybe I can a bit compare watching demo to watching
music-video,  of course there are different aspects.  Maybe if someone nonscener
see demo she/he don't respect it/like it, but so what, demos are for sceners.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Something about scene«»
---------------------«»
«»
«c1»Best  years of swapping was '93 - '95 or something (some older scene farts maybe
can  say  that  those days was before '90 but this is my opinion).  Swapping was
easy then because there was lotsa releases in every week, so I have more choices
what I can send to my contacts.  Later maybe it was '96 situation changed.  More
and  more  scene  products, demos was released only in party time.  The Party in
Denmark,  Gathering  in  Norway,  Assembly  in Finland, Saturne in France, Intel
Outside  in  Poland  and much more computer parties.  Of course it was nice that
there  came so much parties like sceners met in parties, but while there was not
parties,  it  was difficult swap, because groups didn't release demos.  In party
there  was  competitions  series was like demo, intro, graphics, music and maybe
some  else  like  wild  demo compo, raytrace compo etc.  Competition, Is it good
thing?   I'm  not  sure about that.  Of course it bring better and better demos,
more  quality,  hard  coding,  cpu/chipset  is pushed to limits.  About money, I
think  it's  bad  thing, but when we live in planet earth, sad but true, we need
it, when we go to local shop if we like to buy milk and bread for hunger.  Money
=  greed  = jealous = and many more bad things.  And when basically that fucking
money  is  just  only  paper  and  metal.   I don't know maybe it's some kind of
progress when groups release most of demos in parties.  Party competition prizes
(money)  have  been  risen all a time and entrance fee too and parties have been
bigger  and bigger (bigger party place and more visitors.  Parties came more and
more  commercial,  organisers and party staff was not anymore sceners and all of
visitors  have  not  been  anymore sceners (doom/quake playing idiots, who don't
know  anything  about  scene  or  didn't  care  about it).  Intros and demos was
probably  for  nonsceners  just  multimedia  artworks  (stupid name, I hate word
multimedia  or  word  computer nerd), or they didn't even watched them when they
came  to  play  quake  in  net.   Personally I have never been liked big parties
Assembly  '94  was  my only big party, I got better feeling when I go to smaller
meeting  here  in  local town.  The Hooligan kept meetings (about 5 - 10 sceners
and  still  there is sometimes meetings) and liked to go there instead of paying
200FIM  Assembly  ticket  and  seeing  stupid nazi guards, organisers who robbed
money, commercial adverts, quake playing idiots etc.  So is better (at least for
me)  use money for couple of beers (3 litres) and go to The Hooligan meeting and
met  Cheesus,  Weirdo  and  maybe some O'moses members and feel freedom to drink
beer and (assembly) nazi guard don't steal it.«»
«»
Back  to  main  point  again.  So why groups started release their demos only in
party time?  Reasons are maybe:  group members (coders) getting older and bolder
so  exams  and  works (maybe job from software house) to do not so much time for
scene  or  party  demos  got more publicity than non party demos or worst reason
could  be  that  party  compo (competition) prices was quite good (my opinion is
that  money  kills  fun) And then I came to question why to hell groups (coders)
code/make  demos?  Just for fun, for money or both?  What was original reason of
making demos?  I have heard story that it went like this; before crack there was
intro  (introduction)  (group  made it to show that they did crack and there was
some  messages  too).   And  later  some groups start to make only intros and/or
demos to show their talents to others.  Scene some kind of "split" to two parts,
demoscene ("mailswap") and crackscene ("modemtrade") both of course was in Amiga
scene  (some  groups  even  have different sections in other platforms (C64, PC)
some  Amiga groups was C64 groups earlier.  And some of groups crack groups have
also  demosection.   Many  reasons to make demos, birthday party intro (member /
group),  party invitation intro (example.  assembly), anti nazi demo, story demo
(Alcatraz's Odyssey), music demos, joke demos, message demos (long scroll texts,
old demos have long scroll texts), "talent" demos (hard coding, remember old bob
record  demos) etc.  so much reasons.  So what was my point?  My opinion:  demos
was  made  just  for fun, to give some pleasure to sceners, to show group (coder
probably got pleasure when he do it something better, faster or 1st [like motion
blur,  torus, courads, doom effects] than other coders) talents (like making new
effects or do it them faster, better, cooler) etc.  hmm...  I showed to girl how
visited  my  place (many years ago) Virtual Dreams Assembly '94 demo and comment
was  like  this  "why  somebody waste time to do this kind of stuff?".  Yep it's
hard  to  explain  nonscener.   Explain could be like this:  Why to hell someone
paint  pictures?   (Picasso,  Leonardo  da  Vinci) and why to hell someone paint
pictures  when  they  can take a photo with camera?  hmm2...  There was Damage's
damage report diskmag (finnish) and story that some scene dude's girlfriend said
after seeing demos "yes them are nice, but what you can do with them?" ;)«»
«»
So  (back  to roots) what is Amiga scene (demoscene / crack scene) this computer
scene?   Hard  to  explain,  it's  some kind of anarchistic "community", without
written rules and that's ok for everybody.  And it's "members" are most of (99%)
in  some  group  (groups  have  their  own unwritten rules too, group founder or
organiser  ["dictator"]  can give kick without reason if he want).  Following is
ripped from THG's homepage "Demoscene consists of people forming groups who then
work together to release a so called demo, intro or similar".  Scene is just for
fun and free.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1998«»
----«»
«»
«c1»Year 1998, I was lazy too.  Spring 1998 I bought PPC 603e+ 166mhz/040 for my own
made  tower  A1200.  Darkfire stopped trading before summer 1998 and he sold his
a1200t  with  060/Cybervision  and bought PSX or was it PC, anyway later he sold
PSX  and  bought  PC.   I took phone line again in summer 1998 and 56k modem and
took  also  internet  access.   I  got internet access quite easily to work when
Darkfire  have  owned  internet  access  too.   I started to dial telnet boards.
There  was  some of my old swapcontacts in internet and I chatted with them too,
but  it  was  not  anymore same feeling like in letters, I didn't start to write
emails to old mailswap contacts.  I just don't know why there was different kind
of  feeling in internet maybe normal letter write communication was for my taste
only.  My swapping activities was going totally down because of internet access,
normal  delays  was  about 6 months, if them wasn't already that kind of in last
year.  When I now think that trading time (competition was impossible in trading
because  there  was  one  Italian  girl  probably 25h a day in internet ready to
trade)  it  feels  boring, but then it sucked my in deep dungeons and I got some
kind of pleasure from it.  I was something again, when I was quite well known in
those  boards and I tried my best.  My opinion trading is better hobby than golf
or watching TV.«»
«»
«»
«c4»1999«»
----«»
«»
«c1»Year 1999.  Lazy swapping, 6 months delays.  My active swap contacts was gone to
lower  than  20.  My trading activities was also going down in spring and I just
sucked  stuff  anyway  uploading was quite impossible because competition was so
impossible  and there was not so much releases.  I sold PPC card away, because I
think  not  enough  software, there was not really much PPC demos.  Swapping was
dying  and dying because old contacts got enough about swapping too and more and
more contacts got internet access.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Time of hard decisions August-September 1999«»
--------------------------------------------«»
«»
«c1»I stop trading and gave away phone line and internet access and sold modem away.
I  stop  also  swapping.  I send 14 envelopes last time, them was left from over
300 contacts.  Anyway I give notice to my contacts that I stopped swapping and I
didn't steal their disks.  And I leave Scoopex too and I left scene.  And I sold
Amiga hardware and software away.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Splatterhead, old PC hater«»
--------------------------«»
«»
«c1»I hated PC (=puucee=pece) years and PC users and hated Windows and everything in
it.   Ok  I  hate  still Windows because it's crap comparing to Amiga Workbench.
Yep  I  remember song called PC is crap, that was feeling then years ago.  Amiga
forever,  Amiga back to future, Amiga rules, Amiga is best fuck the rest...  but
but but...«»
«»
«»
«c4»Empty promises«»
--------------«»
«»
«c1»Of course I got pissed about those empty promises about new Amigas.  Naked truth
just  was,  no  new  Amiga since 1992, A1200 and A4000 with AGA chipset was last
products.  Commodore when bankrupt 1994.  :( And buyers of Commodore wasn't even
shadows  and  Amiga  technology sold and sold again and nothing happened.  Lucky
that  Phase  5  and some others companies was selling turbocards and fastest was
060/50mhz,  it  was released hmm?  And of course gfx cards (Phase5's Cybervision
and  Villagetronic's Picasso) was need of and we got them too.  Sad that most of
Amiga  owners  have  A1200  and  it  wasn't so easy to expand.  And A4000 was so
expensive.  :( Phase 5 give some hope year 1995 with telling about PowerPC cards
for Amiga.  And at last them was available beginning (spring) of 1998.  I bought
PPC  card asap and I got it for A1200 April 1998.  PPC was good because it bring
more  CPU  power.   Phase  5 also bring 1st quite powerful gfx cards Bvision for
A1200  and Cybervision PPC for A4000.  Sad that everything came so late, because
most  of  Amiga  users  had  left and almost every Amiga software developers had
left.   Problems  were  too  that PPC and new gfx card didn't bring anything new
(comparing  time  1985-1987  and A1000 or A500) to computer market and there was
not so much PPC software and there was not coming that too.  So no reason change
PC  or  Playstation  or  Mac  to PPC Amiga what was expensive, that's why no new
Amiga users.«»
«»
Nice  anyway  that there's internet so Amiga get more lifetime.  I have read bad
news  this  year (2000) when Amiga lost "supporters" (2000), but I don't like to
write about them.  Of course I understand it's impossible to make Amiga magazine
because  no  new  software  or hardware to review.  Anyway it is not Amiga users
fault  that  everything  went  down  or  is  going.   It's just because after C=
bankrupt "nothing" progress happened.«»
«»
Many  years  ago there was complains about piracy killed Amiga.  I agree that it
was not good for Amiga, but that was not only reason.  What killed, it was there
was  no  coming new Amigas after AGA chipset and cpus (=central processing unit)
didn't  bring  enough  mips power.  AGA Amiga wasn't asskicker like comparing to
existing  PC  or  Mac  hardware or software.  Yes I have heard rumours about AAA
chipset  and  it  was  ready even 1994?  but C= didn't release it.  Then C= went
down  and situation of Amiga was unstable very long time (and still is 2000) and
software/hardware  companies left.  Sad but true.  Now later we can be wiser and
I say also that Commodore's bankrupt problems probably was that management spent
much  money  for  aeroplanes  and  their  payroll was higher than what's enough.
Commodore's  product  line  C64,  C128,  A1000, A500, A2000, A3000, A600, A1200,
A4000,  CDTV,  CD32...   If I can drop something away A500+, A600, A600HD, CDTV,
CD32, C64 console version.  About A1200, it was so hard to expand, bad things in
it  PCMCIA  port  (slow,  almost  useless, expensive equipments for it), 3,5" dd
drive (why not HD?), 2,5" hd interface (99% PC hard drives used cheaper 3,5", so
we  all  have  to  buy  2,5  to  3,5" cable) and no Zorro ports so impossible to
connect  gfx  cards  (if  you  don't  want to buy tower case and zorro ports and
keyboard interface which cost really much).  A4000 was better in every ways than
A1200 but it was so expensive.  :(«»
«»
«»
«c4»Amiga power«»
-----------«»
«»
«c1»Amiga  users were loyal to Amiga, but of course there's limits, nothing forever.
Amiga  was not just a computer maybe I can say it was life style.  Amiga spirit,
Amiga  community,  Amiga  scene, Amiga is best - fuck the rest.  It was not just
stupid  computer  like  "normal" people think.  It was state of mind.  Ok I have
written  in  past  form like "was" sorry, but it's probably because I don't have
anymore Amiga on my desk.«»
«»
So  what!   if  no  more  new or old Amigas after 1992 and not so much (no more)
commercial  software.  There's always scene?  Of course scene was always getting
smaller  and  smaller,  but  it's  still  there even some old farts leave scene.
There's  still  C64  scene  alive, so Amiga scene is alive probably too for very
very long time, maybe forever...  Amiga forever...«»
«»
«»
«c4»My Amiga was time-bomb so I decide buy cheap PC«»
-----------------------------------------------«»
«»
«c1»PC's  good  sides:  cheap hardware, software.  So those are reasons why I turned
to  PC hardware.  Amiga hardware is so expensive and lack of software is problem
too (no support for scanner, damn!).«»
I start to sold A1200 equipment because I wasn't anymore interesting to put more
money  for  A1200.   There was fear that A1200 is going to crash totally, it was
real  time  bomb.   I  hated  my  system, own made tower case was total crap and
unstable,  keyboard  was crap, df0 not worked, there was problems with ide-cable
sometimes  hd  not  booted, 1084 monitor crashed a bit so quality was like I was
using  TV-modulator  (I have to use A1200's integrated modulator), was it fun to
surf  in  internet  when  using interlaced screen and using tv-modulator quality
monitor?   not!  What was my choices:  buy multisync monitor, buy new tower case
with zorro2 slots, or buy ppc card with bvision (betavision) gfx card so I don't
have to buy Zorro2 slots.  And buy also new 100% working ide-cable.  And also my
20x  CD-ROM  was  not working 100% anymore so buy new CD-ROM.  Buy, buy and buy,
use  more  money  no  way!  So I sold all equipment what was in A1200 and bought
cheap  second  hand  PC with that money and I even spare money.  And I sold also
scanner  (I  was  also  pissed  about  scanner thing because I never got scanner
software  for  Amiga so I have to use brother's PC) and I sold ide cd-r away.  I
got  tired  to burn CDs for me and others, it was just waste of money when I was
collecting  them.  I sold also 99% of my CDs away (I want to sell everything but
no  managed  to do it), about 85% of them was Amy CDs, others was pics and music
CDs  almost  200 CDs.  I sold also 200 disks away what was left from 2800 disks.
Yes  there  was  in some day 2800 disks in my room.  :) And there was also lotsa
VBS  tapes  where  was 7000 disks stored.  I agree that I was crazy collector, I
collected  everything what I got in my hands since 1987-1999 autumn.  Collecting
was  crazy  too because I only checked 0,1% of stuff what I got.  And I sell all
away in end.  :)«»
«»
About  collecting:   That  was  some  kind  of primitive habit and I enjoyed it.
Somebody  collect  stamps,  I  collected Amiga stuff.  Somebody collected money,
anyway  collecting is crazy when you think that with sense.  Because anyway when
we die, we cannot took collected stuff to grave with us.  hmm...  brains collect
memories...  even we don't like it every time, weirdness.«»
«»
«»
«»
«»
«»
«c4»Some summary«»
------------«»
«»
«c1»I  sold  Amiga and also all collected Amiga stuff.  I stopped swapping, trading.
I  left  group  Scoopex and Amiga scene.  That was my hole life 1990 - 1999.  It
was  quite  big decision.  Years ago I think that how somebody can stop swapping
and  left scene and then I was doing it.  Life changed quietly, like end of 1997
I start to write short stories.  1998 summer I started to write poems etc.  Year
1999 I found lovely girlfriend too.  :) So there was no emptiness in life what I
earlier  scared  if  I  stop  hassle  with  Amiga.  Just simply, changes; Love =
girlfriend  instead  of Amiga.  And hobby = writing instead of swapping/trading.
And  computer  = PC Pentium 133mhz instead of Amiga 1200/030/50mhz.  Anyway even
everything  about  Amiga  is  away,  I  still  have golden memories and them are
important of course.«»
«»
I  have  Universal Amiga Emulator for PC, but so what it don't have same kind of
feeling,  original  is  best.  I understand those golden old days are gone and I
cannot  probably  never get that elite feeling with computer.  Directoryopus and
CygnusEd and some other progs are far better than PC ones still.  :)«»
«»
Yep  few  Amiga  dudes  call  me  and  voice  chat,  when they saw my a1200 sold
advertisement  and  said  like  "Are  you mad?" "You traitor" ;) And when I sold
a1200 dude ask "Do you really want sell this?" Yes there was some Amiga magic in
air.   But I just thought that this computer is just plastic and metal, material
thing.   And  I have used enough time for it.  I agree still this year have been
feelings  that I have lost something and I lost, but times change (don't live in
past someone could say).«»
«»
«»
«c4»1+1=?! - deep thoughts or not so...«»
-----------------------------------«»
«»
«c1»Maybe  somebody  count  what  he/she (gain/gained with his/her hobby, so I count
too.  ;) Maybe there no sense to count hobby's good sides but anyway:«»
«»
«c6»1.   My records (for Guinness book), here's destroy list:  2 external drives (at
least),  5  internal  drives  (at  least),  Seagate 428MB and Quantum 2,5GB hard
drives,  PC  power  supply,  a500  power supply, a1200 power supply, A500, A1200
computers,  A1200  memory  card,  HP CD-R, 1084 monitor and probably hundreds of
disks  and  more...   Why  so  many  broken disks and broken diskdrives?, I have
probably  copied  at  least 30 000 disks, I spent quite much time front of Amiga
using  Superduper  (multitasking)  copy program ;) and Dcopy, I didn't use Xcopy
like others.«»
«»
2. Learned write english better (I hope ;) )«» 
3. Learned to speak english better (thanks contacts who called me) (I hope ;) )«»
3. Learned to communicate through letters«»
4. Learned to write faster using keyboard«»
5. Learned to lick stamps faster«»
6. Learned to run faster to post«»
7. Swapmates give some new views (opinions)«»
8. Live is in better shape (no booze), because all money went to disks and stamps ;)«»
9. I got smarter and philosophical mind, because I didn't speak so much with
so  called "normal people".  That means:  I have time think = use my own brain,
imagination got better etc.«»
10.  and more...more...«»
«»
«c1»I'm  not cheating myself, I agree that scene, Amiga was my hole life.  There was
time  when  I  was bitter, angry, suicidal or what kind of words I can get to my
mind  about  when  I thought that I was wasted my life with Amiga (1990 - 1999.)
Someone  could say that it was wasting of time, but he/she really don't know me,
anyway  it  was my life and everyone create his/her own world.  Easily I can say
that jogging everyday 10 kilometers, bodybuilding everyday, watching TV (or porn
movies  and masturbating all night long ;), playing with Playstation, working 8-
hours  for  getting  payroll,  doing business, boozing, reading books, listening
music,  making  music, playing monopoly, studying in university (example nuclear
physics), praying god/reading bible etc, thinking something deeply like who am I
and  where  I  came  to this reality?  (from arses to ashes, dust to lust) or is
reincarnation  possible?   or  who  or  what created planet earth/universum?  is
waste  of  time.   Instead  of  doing those (wasting time), what you think about
these:   Making  love  with girlfriend, eating ice-cream, fucking good chat with
soul-mate...    etc.    hmm...    taste  of  life  is  so  different...   thanks
"creator"...  we are not clones (robots)...  at least not yet...«»
«»
Hobbies, when think about them deeply, probably every feels senseless.  My hobby
have  been bodybuilding about three years during '88 - '90 and '95-'96, do you I
really  need massive muscles?  not, just quite good body shape for feeling good.
I lost motivation after '90 and started again '95 and again lost motivation '96.
Other hobbies have been skateboarding few years, judo over 1 year and boxing few
months.   And  of course watching TV.  When comparing TV and Amiga scene time, I
must  really  say  that  scene  have  been  much better bobby than watching just
movies.   About  movies anyway them have been probably too useful, I just cannot
say/write  what  are  good points of them, but anyway I think so that I have got
from them some inspiration, views, opinions, and a bit learn about life, solving
problems  etc.   Ok  I  agree  movies  are  entertainment, but there's sometimes
"hidden  messages",  if  them are not just total crap.  When think about this my
"new"  hobby writing, is it just madness?  wasting time?  (when I can instead of
it, example watch TV) Maybe but so what!  it is my hobby and I like it enjoy it,
it give about it something, it clear mind, it give (elite) feeling, this is some
kind  of  communication.   I have thought that too, is there anybody who read my
texts  (this  text)?  maybe and probably not much (maybe only one), but anyway I
wrote  these just for fun (even this take quite much energy and it's not so easy
to  finish  this "job"), when so much to write and hard to organise thinks (like
you can see).«»
«»
One of pleasures is that I write texts just for fun.  This is not my job.  Maybe
writing  for getting payroll, kill the fun and probably it kills.  And of course
I'm  not  workaholic.  That sucks, when every time someone "have to" (few people
have asked about my writing "do you get money from your critic articles what are
released  in  newspapers?"  Nope  and  I  don't  care) convert hobby to job, why
everything have try turn to money, money sucks.  Money kills fun mostly.«»
«»
This  life  is  mine,  there's many lives but this one is mine and my life is my
friend.  :)«»
«»
About  life,  creating  own world = life style, opinions about life:  I hope you
use  too  positive  logic, humour.  I have been in years ago quite suicidal, but
life  changed.   When  thinking  so fucking deeply going to basics, like you are
flesh,  bones  and  brains  are  main  unit.   So  who  am I?  memories made us,
solutions,  choices,  bliss,  sadness,  losses,  glory, years after years we are
growing  and  going wiser (I hope so ;) ).  Yep life is (tragi)comedy, we die in
end show.«»
«»
Someone  meditates  24h in day or pray god, someone watches soap-opera from TV 5
hours a day, someone is training sports everyday, someone booze every day or/and
use  drugs,  someone  surf  every  in  internet,  someone play everyday with his
Playstation...«»
«»
Someone  could say that why I judging someone's life and doings.  Remember these
are  just  my  opinions, not absolute truths (just my own truths), everyone have
their  own truths (truth is out there ;) maybe between lines?!).  I'm doing this
just  for  fun and it's free for you, rip my thoughts freely.  Don't read if you
don't  like,  it's  your choice.  Maybe someone think that I'm arrogant fuckhead
who  is trying to be wiser than readers, some kind of guru or teacher and trying
to  get  fame.   Then  you are totally wrong (stupid mothafucker ;), sorry I was
evil.   hmm...   I  tell  you  now  my  darkest secret...  remember don't spread
this...  I'm a firestarter...twisted firestarter...  ;)«»
«»
Yes  I  know  that there's easier to make damage by writing than something good,
and there's also easily come misunderstandings.«»
«»
About  teachers (they tried to put some mathematical functions (x+y) in my mind;
"never  learned,  never  used  ;)  ), books (give some war propaganda, but there
always  to  sides  in  "coin",  newspapers (I just read comics and TV programs),
radio, internet, TV«»
«»
Drink  and  drive  smoke and fly, I prefer think but of course I drink sometimes
booze of course, not milk.«»
«»
Ok I hope my "jokes" haven't been dryer than vodka on the rocks...«»
«»
Probably  at least police forces think that it have been better that I have been
in front of my miggy than kicking old women in streets & robbing them...«»  
hmm...  I hope you find your happy thoughts too...  watch Peter Pan and wait for
sun...shine...then you can fly...free your mind...«»
«»
You  probably  now  think  where's  the catch?  ok, you haven't found yet secret
part...try Ctrl+Amiga+Amiga...«»
«»
Writing  is  my main hobby and this fun for me "play" with thoughts.  I probably
come crazy if I don't get thoughts off my mind like writing or chatting.  Yep of
course  I'm  a bit proud of my writing skills.  Ok many many years ago I dreamed
about  writing  a book, and later last year I wrote some kind of.  It was not so
hard,  everybody can learn to write.  Many years ago problems was just that what
I write, no idea, so why to write?!  ;)«»
«»
Definately  now  after  so  many years I understand that I learn something while
swapping  and I have learn something also in school, I just didn't realised that
earlier.«»
«»
There  was  sometimes in letters and diskmags these words "real life" and "scene
life"  hmm...   I don't like much about categorising life.  Is "scene life" less
life?  than "real life"?  I understand that "scene life" is "real life" too.  Or
is  it  "scene  life"  in another dimension?  Somebody also talk about job life,
school  life  and  free-time,  that's  piss  me off too, why categorise it sucks
because if there is that thing in background like:  job and school is boring and
crap, free- time only is good and fun.  Years ago think too that in "scene life"
I'm  fucking  elite  and  in "real life" I just another worm in darkness.  And I
think  I  was  just  another  mothefucka of dirty dozen.  Anyway social life was
total  crap then, anyway I'm not so much social person that I need much friends,
so  I didn't care about so much about "social life", where I wasn't so elite.  I
have  been alone but I have not been so lonely of course sometimes.  When "scene
life" was gone, I have to of course fill emptiness and so on I find this hobby =
writing.   Yes  and  now I'm fucking genius, fucking god, guru, master of words.
Ok anyway less thinking and more humour, so you don't get headache.«»
«»
Maybe  somebody  think  that  I keep Amiga as dead, but I see it is still alive.
Irc channels, Aminet, scene, demos, parties, even commercial stuff is still, and
even coming new Amigaos or/and even new Amigas...«»
«»
End  of  1999 I hated quite much computers too because I have used so much of my
life  to  them.   Anyway now later when I think that, there's weirder hobbies in
world  than  computers,  like  playing  golf etc.  urgh!  boring...  at least to
watch from TV that.«»
«»
Everything  dies like Venus Art said in their demo.  Hmm...  they came back with
PPC demos.  ;) Maybe I come back to scene (reincarnation), who knows?!  ;)«»
«»
Life  is  complex, thoughts are not simplex, so that's why there is in text some
paradox and anarchy, but anyway I'm still have my (in)sanity.«»
«»
I  have  written  these  texts  in  night time and when I have been crazy (every
time), so there was probably something weird.«»
«»
I start to write this text Wednesday 15th March 2000 and it's ready (enough) now
Saturday  1st April 2000) During writing this text; my mind have turned again to
use  english  language, :) because I wrote so much letters in past, thousands of
letters  ('90  -  '99)  using  english language.  Hooray now it's "ready" (maybe
there's  something  to  write but...), there's probably many errors to fix but I
fix them later "maybe".  ;)«»
«»
«»
bibi,«»
«»
«c4»Vesqu - Splatterhead / ex.Scoopex (AMIGA)«»
Lahti, Finland «»
«»
vesqu@nfmail.com«»
http://come.to/vesqu«»
«»
«c1»Greetings to: (very old greets list, groups are really not updated in ages)
Sorry if I forgot someone... Thanks mates about everything!«»
«»
«c6»Ace / Session«»
Ace / Trance Inc.«»
Acen / Compact«»
Action / Anadune«»
Adder / Subject«»
Adn / Honoo^Steroids«»
Adonis / Passion«»
Akiro«»
Angeldust / Phuture 303«»
Ant / Three Little Elks«»
Apeman / Mobile«»
Arcane / Squash«»
Atomic / Iris«»
ATR«»
Avenger / Giants«»
Backfire / Applause«»
Bad_Boy / Why«»
Barf / Salamander«»
Barman / Necropolis«»
Bart / Isch Crew«»
Base / Phuture 303 & Avocado«»
Bass 41 / Pagan«»
Bauer / Cadaver«»
Benjo / Nightfall«»
Bigman / Vision Software«»
Blaster / Eremation«»
Blaze / Phuture 303^Fractal Generators^Stage Diving Club«»
Blitzer / Iris«»
Blockhead / Unlimited«»
Bodzio / The Edge«»
Boly«»
Bon / Neo«»
Boobba / Sector 5^Venal«»
Booger / Abstract«»
Bootlegger«»
Braindead / ex.Scoopex«»
Bubba / Clan«»
Bytebreaker / Skulls«»
Chode / Dec«»
Captain Bo / Orbital«»
Captain Planet / Zymosis«»
Carbon / Passive«»
Carnifex«»
Carp / Strobe^Phuture 303«»
Case78 / Scoopex^C-Lous«»
Caus / Legacy«»
Cavit / Diffusion«»
Celtic / Mellow«»
Chain«»
Chaos! / Desire«»
Chaser / Flying Cows Inc.«»
Cheesus«»
Chewie / Xtrade^Depth«»
Chihdo«»
Chmiel / Neoplasia«»
Chris / Gods«»
Chriz / Element«»
Chrombacher / Obscene«»
Chronic / Zenon«»
Claustro«»
Clever / Phuture 303«»
Clone I.D.«»
Cls«»
Cobra«»
Colorbird / Razor 1911«»
Cook / Erotic ^ Define«»
Coolio / Grasshopper developments«»
Coyote / ex.Kronical«»
CrazyD / C-Lous«»
C-Tank / Exile«»
Curse / Cyberdreams«»
Curt Cool / Depth«»
Cuz / Moment 22«»
Cyclone / Phuture 303«»
Cyryx / Dylem«»
Daffy«»
Dalamar / ex.Bombsquad«»
Dale«»
Damien / Phuture 303«»
Danny Kane / Flying Cows Inc.^Kinky«»
Darkfire«»
Darkhawk / Iris«»
Dave / Freezers«»
Dave / Simplex«»
D-Code / Delite«»
D-Coy / Giants«»
Decoy / Scoopex«»
Delora / Whelpz«»
Denis / Excess«»
Dennis Sno«»
Devastator / Salamander«»
Device / Parallax«»
Devistator / Eltech^Twisted«»
Dialer / DVT«»
Digger / Iris«»
Digital Zone«»
Digitizer / Supernova«»
Dire / The Dark Demon^Eremation«»
Doc / Depth«»
Domain / Saints«»
Dominator / Alchemy«»
Doomsday / Bizarre Arts«»
Dosadi / Spasm«»
Double R / Bronx«»
Drac / Ambrosia^Limited Edition^Phuture 303«»
Dr. Anal Freser«»
Dr.Avalanche / Illusion«»
Dr.Death / Eltech^Astra Syntex«»
Dr.Matrix / Procyon«»
Dr.poop / DCS^Vanity«»
Dwangi / Strange«»
Dvize / Devious Dezigns«»
Eagle / Syndrome^Honoo^Agoa«»
Easy / Focus Design«»
Electron / Citron«»
El Guapo«»
Enzyme / Neo«»
Ernie / TMT«»
Evapor8er / ex.Freezers«»
Excel / Balance^Crux«»
Exolon / Old Bulls«»
Exon / Riot«»
Fashion / Ram Jam«»
Fate / Outlaws«»
Felix / msv«»
Fiction / Intense«»
Firestarter / Instinct«»
Fisherking / Massive«»
Flapjack / Convex^Erotic^FG«»
Fly / Depth«»
Flynn / Outlaws«»
Frame / C-Lous«»
Fred / AFC«»
Fugazi / Giants«»
Gad / Trance Inc.«»
Gart / Bronx«»
Gaza.R / Nebula«»
General Lee / Suprise Productions«»
Gerdy / Royal & Funland Farrow«»
Ghandy / Gods«»
Giz / Desire«»
Gizmoduck / Depth«»
Godfather / Fun«»
Gold Dragon / Act«»
Gone / Void«»
Grand Master B«»
Grapic / RGB«»
Greippi / Limbo«»
Growl / ATP^ALS^P303«»
Grunf / Gillette«»
Gunman / Mystic«»
Hardfire / Intense^NGC«»
Harmony«»
Hawk / Why«»
Haze / Apathy«»
Heatwave / Depth«»
Hellfire / ex.Bitchsuckers«»
Hellraiser / Fun«»
Hellrazor / Fun^Ems^Apathy«»
Hijack / Retire«»
Hiro / Liquid«»
Hogan / Ladybird Design«»
Hotstepper / Rektum«»
Hr.Flicker / Technology«»
Hunter / Boom Design«»
Hurricane«»
Immortal / Freezers«»
Incognito / ex.Black Jack«»
Inssomniak / Redline Design«»
Iro / RNO^Depth«»
Iron / Mad Elks«»
Jack Slader«»
Jam Raddox«»
Janitor / Zenon«»
Jesta / Eltech«»
Jim / Sector 5«»
Jummen / Massive«»
Maka.b / Fresh«»
K!M / Kinky«»
Kaneda / Grasshopper Developments«»
KaosMaster / Ram Jam«»
Karpow / Scoopex«»
Kazz / ex.Freezers«»
Keldon / Jewels«»
Kestrel / Syndrome«»
Klaf / Old Bulls«»
Knight / Majic 12«»
Kopara / Mad Elks«»
Korball / Amnesty«»
Krusen / Metro«»
Kurczak / Ozone Free«»
Lfo / Phuture 303«»
Light / ex.Black Jack«»
Lithium / Gods«»
Loonie / Depth«»
Lord / Absolute«»
Lovely / Old Bulls«»
Madel / Fire«»
Madsen / Suspiria^The Lowlifes«»
Mag / Illusion«»
Magellan / Royal pc«»
Mailman«»
Malakai / Sardonyx«»
Maly / Ladybird Design«»
Maniac / Fanatic«»
Marc Panther«»
Mare / Zenon«»
Mars / Mystic«»
Masque / Fanatic«»
Matrix / NGC«»
Maverick / Grasshopper Developments«»
Maxime / Proline«»
Maze / Eltech^Massive«»
McCoy / Scoopex«»
McDon / Intruders«»
Mcr / Mawi«»
Mc Spicy / Savior«»
McWilsh / Gods?«»
Melfis / Cider«»
Melvin / Rebels«»
Mentor / Neo«»
Mephisto / Supreme«»
Mic / Slope«»
Mice / Erotic Design«»
Mikdom«»
Mindphaser / Freezers«»
Mike / Delight«»
Miko63 / Iris«»
Miro«»
MJ / Iris«»
Mogul / Ram Jam«»
Mohd Zaman«»
Mop / Essence«»
Morino / TheFecT«»
Mr.King / TRSI«»
Mr.Noname / Inforadio«»
Mr.Uhu / Phuture 303«»
Mr.Vain / Secretly!«»
MSW / Effect«»
Mute / Trance Inc.«»
Nicholas / Intruders«»
Nirvana«»
Noodle / Facet's Pussy/Desire^Mellow«»
Nop / Saints«»
Nork / Network^Massive^Osmose«»
Norman / Anadune«»
Nuno / ex.Quadriga«»
Octon / Midway«»
Opel / LSD«»
Orvaskersa / ex.Virtual Zone«»
Overdose / TRSI«»
Oxstone / Spasm«»
Paperboy / Mobile«»
Payday / Ram Jam«»
Peace / Iris«»
Pinup / ex.Sardonyx«»
Poseidon from Norway«»
Poseidon / Unlimited from Germany«»
P.O.W / Iris«»
Prince / X-Tension«»
Pseudonym / ex.Ram Jam«»
Punisher / Absurd + Apathy + Mantra + Rno«»
Qba / TRSI«»
Qix / Gods«»
Quaid / Mad Elks«»
Rag / Imagine«»
Rahiem / US«»
Ranz / Megaunit«»
Rapsu / Accession«»
Raptor / Sector5!«»
Ravana / Centolos«»
Raven / Fanatic«»
Rave / Lsd^Sad«»
Raze / Tomato Dreams«»
Realitor / Eltech«»
Rebb / Mantra«»
Receiver / LED«»
Reval / Infect«»
Ripper / Diffusion«»
Risk / Animators«»
Rod / Banana Design«»
Rogue / Darkness«»
Romeo / Apollo 13«»
Rooster / Giants«»
Roover / Decree«»
Royal'69 / Energy^Wartec«»
Sas«»
Sascha / Mirage«»
Saurian / Maniacs«»
Schizo / ex.Kinky«»
Sci / Strobe«»
Scraby / Picco«»
Sear / Dylem«»
Seb / Etilik«»
Seduce / Status O.K.«»
Sharp / Megapoint«»
Shatterhand / Savior«»
Shocker / ex.Virtual Design«»
Signed / Paragon«»
Silky / Enemy«»
Sinister / Maniacs«»
Siracon / Defiance^Maniacs«»
Skaven«»
Skull / Eremation«»
Skyclad / Compact«»
Slag«»
Slam / Trance Inc.«»
Sleepwalker / ex.Psycho«»
Slurry / Intense^Black Fishy«»
Soldier / Waveriders«»
Splash / Illusion«»
Spyros«»
Starkiller / Savior«»
Steel / Eternal«»
Speedy / Jewels«»
Stevie / Disorder«»
Stimpy / Suprise Productions«»
Sting / Abyss«»
Stranger / Affix«»
Strife / Apathy«»
Striker«»
Stujay / The Dark Demon«»
Styles / S2«»
Subtopia / Limited Edition^Planet Core«»
Swoop / Rebels«»
Sylicon / Intense«»
Taxman / Diffusion«»
Terminator / Dusk«»
Tetsuo / Saturne«»
The Black Mage / Factory«»
The Collector / The Magic Guild«»
The Finnish Fist«»
The Founder / Scum«»
The Hooligan / DCS«»
The King / Erotic Design«»
The Ripper / Rom-Team«»
The SM / Status O.K.«»
The Specialist«»
The Trendy Dealer / Ram Jam«»
Thrym / Neo«»
Thunder / Scoopex«»
Tiger / Slope«»
Timi / SAF«»
Toff / Bros In Arms«»
Torquemada«»
Tornado / Chrome«»
Toto Glez«»
Tracky / Apollo^Hmr^Apathy«»
Trasher / Sanity^Artwork^Bomb«»
Trickster / Edge«»
Trooper / Lego«»
TSI / Avantgarde«»
TSK / Sardonyx«»
Tweeter / Mobile«»
Ufo / Iris^Heretia«»
U-Man / ex.Dual 4mat«»
Wade / Eltech«»
Vader / Tribe«»
Vadium / Neo«»
Warhawk / Illusion^Obsession«»
Waterhead / Ozone Free«»
Watts / Neo«»
Vega / Ram Jam«»
Weirdo / Skid Row«»
Victory / Saints«»
Wildcat / Visage«»
Virus / Arise«»
Wiseguy / Apathy^Astra Syntex«»
Wiza / Diffusion«»
Volcryn / Iris«»
Von Broom / The Dark Demon«»
Vostok / ex.H2O«»
Xman / Passion«»
X-Poole / Nuance«»
Yab! / ex.Black Jack«»
Yak / Saints«»
Yoyo / Fifth Generation«»
Zapotek / Black Code Design«»
Zax / The Public Enemies«»
Zibi / Flying Cows Inc.«»
Zinko / Polka Brothers«»
«»
«»
«e»

