



Helloo everyone ..  This is chriz writing a nice little party report from the
notorious party The Gathering'98.

Written in a hurry , write errors may occur

The partys in the tg series has a tendency getting more and more commerce.  I
was  attending  TG96,97 and they both greq in quakelameness and this year its
worse  than  ever.   aprox.   95%  of  all  the  people present are pc dudes.
Actually  ,  this  Wednesday , the first day of tg98 , things is looking like
this  is  going  to  be the worst TG ever .  At least in my eyes, the amidemo
compos  will  probably  not  have  any truly great demos , since haujobb will
release  a  pc demo.  TBL is present , even without the legendary coders offa
and  equalizer , still it's rumoured that rubberduck and co.  will release an
amigademo , if so it will be the first in the so far one year ld hiatus.  But
let's  not  count out limited edition just yet.  This High quality group came
third  last  year  ,  their  tp7 demo was great and let's hope they kick butt
here!

I arrived early at "the place to be".  I was 'ere 07:50 , the doors were said
to  open at 08:00 so i got in line 5 mins prior to that.  the doors opened at
aprox.08:10  ,  and since they only let in 5 people at a time to register , I
wasn't  in  until  09:30 !  And let me tell you , standing in that line , was
NOT funny!  But never mind the bullocks.




We  who  appear  to  be  the  children  of  a  dying breed are still present.
Allthough this partys is just as lame as any commercial shit.

The  network  was  off  to  a bad start.  And the big screen displayed that a
vital part was on a plane from usa and tehy expected to have everything ready
at  16:00.  However , the internet was delayed , and it was still not up when
I went to sleep at 02:00.

Second day

I woke up a little prior to 08:00, and everything seemed to be ok.  However ,
surpise , there was still no network.  And 14:00 I presume the internet to be
functional , however .  It doesn't interest me much.

They  want us to registere aswell now.  When we were first let in , they only
hgave  us  a 24hour pass.  And now you're supposed to go in this big line and
register.  Well .In time.

Yeah  ..   and  the  registration  took time .  the rest is written after the
party since i had some hd trouble and little time ..

The  guards  kept harassing unregistered peeople , telling us to registere at
once  or  you'll  be kicked out , or if you're not registered the next time I
see  you you will not be let in etc.  So when I finally decided to get in the




line  ,  I'd been in line for an hour , and the machines brok down!  ahh nice
one ..  I stood in line under one of the wild demo compos ( they had split it
up  this  year since it has grown to become to long to show all at once ) and
the  part I saw was the home made movies wild or whatever, and most of it was
pure bullshit and crap.

I registered the next day after standing 15 minutes in line.

I did not get to check out the moview room this year cause there was a lot of
old movies ( most i'd seen)

the internet continued not to work properly on the second day ( thursday) and
when the network crashed under the quake compo , some houndred people marched
in line around the hall shouting ( we want network !  in norvegian)

this didn't lead to anything , and altghough the internet was up later on the
second  day  ,  it was to be very slow , quite unbearably slow , a lot of the
time.  The LAN was ok though.

One  of the things that sucked most of the party was the over-prescence of pc
nerds  and  the  under-prescence  of  amiga  peeps.   I  don't  know how many
attenders  but  less  then 100 amiga people were prescent ( I think somewhere
about  50  ) and this year .  The cd copying thing had grown to what the disk
copying  was  for the amiga 4 years ago.  "Everybody" with a pc was burning .




10  packs  of cd-rs everywhere.  The nice thing abooout this is that I got to
burn some cd's too :) ( My hd is really grateful :)

I  wouldn't  call  this "an exclusive interview" or something, but i can tell
you  I overheard a conversation between rubberduck/tbl and frequent/eph under
the  amidemo  compo  ,  where rubberduck expressed his thoughts about how the
amiga  is  really  dead  and  so and so on , how tbl did't allmost nothing of
their work on amigas and so and so on , well ..  go figure.

The pc demo compo wasn't nothing to shout about .  Except from of a couple of
demos  the  3d  was half hearted , and the impressive winner was done by none
other  than the great GODS .  I'm not complete sure if we'll ever see another
amiga  demo release from them , but I can tell you they are doing well on the
pc.

The  amigademo  compos  didn't let me down , although fewer entries then last
year  (this  years 9 versus last years 16 or something) it still rocked , and
most  of  the  demos were of very high quality.  Especially lamatron , :) The
trsi  demo deserved to win if you ask me , and dcs was allso a real nice one.
I totally loved the creds sequence :)

The  4k  compo was fucked, they cut some intros before they were finished and
the  first  time they showed them it was with two channels only :) ..  err ..
rite ..  so they showed it twice.




The  bigscreen  this year was actually much better than last years one, which
was  actually a smallscreen , and this year you could nicely watch the compos
from most of the hall.

If you want to know about c=64 , there were some people actually present, and
the  tp97  winner  was shown on the bigscreen.  And it rocked , it was a c=64
version  of the pc classic , second reality by future crew .  and it was cool
:)

Every  year  you  notice  the tg "hits" , the songs that are played by almost
everybody  .   This  year  some  of the songs were :  it's like that , higher
state of conciousness , overdose , and everything from the fat of the land.

Yepp  ,  a lot of people only went to tg for these reasons :  To play games ,
to  watch vivos and mpegs with sound , to listen to mp3 really loud , to surf
the internet for four days.  Yeah ..  it just gets lamer and lamer.

If  I  look back to the other two tg's I've been to (96,97) for me last years
was  the  overall best.  But I think I had more fun now than 96 but hey , who
really cares.
