




                        T H E  P A T H  W E  W A L K

                             by: WiseGuy/Giants


Start of an new era!

In  the  mid 80's a revolution did strike the computer marked.  We know it as
the  "Amiga".   People  where  amazed  by its capabilities, the first real so
called  "multimedia"  computer  where  a fact.  One day a scener from the c64
scene had to visit the dentist ;) It was rarely that the early species of the
scener  went  outside in the c64 era.  On his/her's way to the dentist he/she
saw  something  in  a  shop  window  that draw the thoughts far away from the
toothache.   In  fact  the  dentist  become  very disappointed that day.  The
scener  told  all  his/her's  friends about the wonderful revelation that had
occurred  in front of him/her.  A lot of the early sceners ( now known as the
old  legends  ;)  from  the c64 bought themselves this new wonderful machine.
Like  the  ones  before  them, some of these people gathered in small tribes,
better  known as groups.  Some where happy just playing games.  The c64 scene
become  divided  in  the pro amiga and the pro c64, alas the c64'ians lost in
the end, still some brave freedom fighters keep on struggling.





Best of the best

The  scene  had evolved into a new era.  There was many small tribes fighting
for  the  ultimate  goal,  to become the best at annual gatherings.  To start
with these small gatherings where nothing more than so called "copy parties".
You  saw  their  eyes  glow  in  the dark.  If you did look closer, you could
actually  see  x-copy  reflected  from  the screen in there too!  Later these
gatherings  turned out to commercial circuses with enormous prices to be won.
The  scene  hadn't yet realized what their machine was capable of.  This lead
to new releases very often.  One after the another with new stunning effects.
The  scene had to develop their own mail service, the "swapper" was born.  It
become  a  prestige  to be the best known swapper.  There was swappers on the
c64  to,  but  a  less  evolved one.  With the need to know who was the best,
charts  started  to  circulate and evolved into a strange form for magazines.
Since  virtually  everything  could  be competed about, new magazines saw the
light of day.  Competing about which one was the best, to give the best chart
where  the  sceners  competed to become the best!  Confused?  The competition
was  healthy,  and  the  scene  did  grow bigger better and stronger.  In the
middle  of  the  90's  it  reached  its  peak,  after  a  decade with joy and
happiness.   Well It wasn't all that joy thought, "the maker" did fall to the
ground.  We was on our own but the spirit was high.




The parallel universe!

The  scene  did  divide itself into two groups.  Those who cared more for the
joy  of  (free)  games.   And those dedicated to demos and such.  The gamer's
soon  realised;  why buy something you can get for the cost of a disk or two?
Very  soon  the surge of piracy where over us.  In the beginning there wasn't
no real  medium  to  spread the files.  Thought, there was a half cast of the
swapper  breed,  but  it was a slow process.  Soon electronic bulletin boards
(BBS's)  where  a  reality.   It did cost a lot though, so some clever people
found  ways  to  call  for  free.   The  law did catch up sometimes, and made
headlines  in  the  scene magazines (often in the local press as well).  Also
other individuals did open their own BBS's.  Not for the free games, but more
as  a  gathering place where people could meet and discuss things.  There was
files  released  as  well,  but  more  legal  ones, even some did carry false
colours.   The  same  with the ones that where faithful to the mail swapping.
They  found  ways  to  re-circulate used stamps.  Better known as faking.  It
could be done in many ways, but in the end the bitch at the post office smell
what  was  going  on.  Then yet some headlines was made.  In the mid 90's the
tide  turned  for  the  gamer's.  The turbulence had made the developers more
doubtful  and  less software where released.  The competition tightened, many
left  for  more  appealing  computers  when  it  comes to games.  Yet another
competitor  entered  the  battlefield!   It  was  so huge that in the end the
boards  couldn't compete with it, some joined it, some even closed down and a
few still hang in there.




Time of confusion!

Towards  the  mid  90's a lot of rumours circulated.  Who was going to be our
new  master?   Suddenly we saw a bright light, the saviour was here.  But not
for  long  it  was  a  false  messiah!   We did yet again walk in the land of
confusion.   Some lost their faith and moved on to what they felt was greener
pastures, that had more to offer.  False prophecies started to circulate; The
scene  is  dead,  judgement  day  is  near.   Reminds me a little about those
religious cults that have judgement day once a year to earn some quick bucks!
The amiga kept some faithful disciples that started to make devices to expand
our  machines  with.   This avoided it to fall back on life support!  Thought
this  was  only  a  stop  gap  until  the new master arrived.  The new master
confused  people,  he was so BIG, but yet did so little.  We could almost see
the  cloud  lift  from  the  scene.  Trough out the '97 we save some stunning
productions.   The  '98  followed up with yet more nice productions.  We have
decreased in numbers but are still unified in strength (with some exceptional
disbelievers).

Where will you be tomorrow?

Some  asks  us  that, but we can't really answer.  The situation have changed
rapidly  the  last  decade.  While we have been lost in the dark for to long,
the  competitors  advanced  and become strong.  Both in strength and numbers.
Reinforcements  seems  to be on the way, but its perhaps to late.  To late to




bring us back to the glory days that is.  I can only speak for myself.  But I
will try to be faithful to this religion (if I can use those words ;) as long
as possible.
