




Amiga Inc. Jeff Schindler at Amiga 98 by Amazing Computing/Amiga
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"I really want to speak from my heart."

Jeff  Schindler,  Saturday  March  14, 1998, at the Gateway Amiga 98 I really
want  to thank everyone that came here, especially Bob and Diana (Scharp) for
putting  this  on.   It's  a wonderful event, and my first US show.  As Petro
mentioned,  we  went  to  the  Cologne  show in Germany, and that was a great
experience.  I also want to recognize Marilyn Flint and Darreck Lisle who are
both  Amiga Inc.  employees, along with Joe Torre, all Amiga Inc.  employees.
And  Petro coming all the way from Germany and always staying with the Amiga.
One  other person that I want to say something about, and I'll get in trouble
for  doing  this,  but I wouldn't be the man who I am unless she was with me,
and that's my wife Kim.

I  had  a presentation that I was putting together for this, and then I had a
speech that I wrote for this.  Then after spending the weekend with you guys,
I  decided  I  didn't want to do either one of those.  I really want to speak
from  my  heart,  here.  I'll be very honest with you and open.  As much as I
can  share  with  you,  I  will,  and  I'm  sure there's going to be a lot of
questions afterwards.




I'll give you a little bit about my background.  I'm very honored to be asked
by  Ted Waitt to be here tonight in this spot.  When I came to Gateway, I was
in  charge  of  the  portable division at a competitor, and Ted asked me four
years  ago,  "Well,  you  know,  we  could  really  use  a lot of help on our
portables."  I said, "No, I don't want to work any more on portables." And he
said,  "so what do you want to do?" And I said, "I just want to look into the
future."  He  said,  "Okay," he's a cool guy, "do what you want." So, I spent
some months in research and came up with the concept of (some of you might be
familiar  with  it),  the  Destination  TV,  the  PC-TV.  It's an interesting
product.   It was more of an attempt to get that market started, knowing that
convergence  market  is  coming.   It's  interesting  to see that all the top
competitors  are now working on products very similar to that.  So, we'll see
where that goes.

I  really  believe  because  of the vision that Ted saw in me to come up with
that  so  early in the market when Gateway wasn't recognized as an innovative
company  in  the  way  of  new  types  of  technology,  when he saw the Amiga
opportunity,  I  think that was a good reason.  In fact, in dealing with part
of  the  Destination  I  saw  this  was launched and was happening, I sort of
wanted  to go on to that next stage.  I was just telling one of my colleagues
that  night  that  I  was sort of tired, and I really wanted to move onto the
next  stage.   I  was walking down the hall very late at night at work, and I
ran  into  Ted Waitt, and Ted said, "Come on over here, Jeff." I just thought
that  he  wanted  to  shoot the bull.  We were talking, and he said, "Well, I




want  you  to think of one thing." I thought, he's just pulling my leg, here,
because I'm always thinking of all kinds of things.  Rick Snyder, who was the
president back then, came out and he was sort of smiling at me, and I thought
these  guys  were  just pulling my leg.  So, I started to walk away, and they
said,  "No,  come  on  back  here, come on back here." He looked at me and he
said,  "I  want you to think AMIGA." That was just after Gateway had acquired
it.   I  said, "Seriously, really?" He said, "Yes.  I want you to think about
it,  look  into  it  a little bit, and write me an email and tell me what you
think about Amiga."

Some  of  you  might know my background, when I was in college I worked for a
company,  and through the years I actually worked for their headquarters.  My
job  was  back  when  the  Commodores,  Ataris, TI, Activision, and all those
companies were out.  It was a big retail chain, and they asked me to actually
go  to  each  of  these  stores,  train  them  and  teach  them  about how to
merchandise.   So  my  salary was actually being paid by Commodore back then.
It was funny because in our house (I'm ashamed to tell you) we had Ataris and
Commodores,  and,  well,  we had them all.  My conclusion was that the VIC 20
was the best thing.

I  brought  my  VIC  20 home, and I spent I think about four hours writing my
first microprogram, and I ran out of memory.  I had to run back to the store,
go  to  the  back  and  grab  one of this big modules with, like, megaram, or
something  K, or, I don't know what it was.  It was this huge thing, and just




about  four  hours  of programming and I ran out.  I don't know if that means
that I'm a bad programmer, but I always said when I went back and finished up
college that the Commodore was the best out of those machines, I always loved
it.  That was sort of my background.

One  thing  that I've realized since I've taken this job, more than anything,
is  that  Amiga  not only is this awesome technology that was really ahead of
its  time,  but  it  is more than a technology, it's the people.  The values,
dedication, it's in your heart.  I want to say that we're going through a lot
of  tough times, and it's very difficult for me to read the emails and listen
to  the phone calls, to find out about the companies that are going down with
Amiga.   It  hurts.  It hurts so bad, sometimes I tell my wife, "I don't even
know  if  I  want  to  do this any longer".  I don't want to let these people
down.   But  the  fact  is, nothing good comes very quickly.  We have to have
patience.   That's  something I struggle with very much.  I go into Gateway's
management and I say, "I want to do this," and they say, "Do you think that's
the  best  plan?"  Well,  maybe not, go back to the drawing board, let's hear
another one.  Since I've started, I've come up with at least twelve different
business  plans  for  the  future  of Amiga.  These plans aren't `what are we
going to do six months from now'.

These  plans  are  `what  are we going to do through the year 2001, or 2002'.
It's very frustrating because I want to get everything going, and yes, we are
working  on an operating system upgrade.  We've got a lot of things we can do




in the interim but, until that future plan is solid, which I'm really excited
about right now, actually.  That's one of the good things that's happened is,
because  I've  gone  back  to the drawing board so many times, now I've got a
plan that has exceeded my expectations, and I'm really excited about it.  One
of  the things, to address what Mitch was saying, that big competitor we know
about may own the standards today, but they don't own the future.

I really believe what's coming is what I call the `digitally connected global
society'.   What  that  means is, basically, because of the acceptance of the
internet,  because of the need for people in the future to be connected, it's
going  to be part of your daily life.  It already is for you, but I'm talking
about people who never wanted computers in their life.  It's going to be part
of  education.   It's going to be part of their daily chores.  So, that's one
of  the  big things that's going to drive us.  The other thing is the digital
revolution.  Everything is going digital, digital media.  Basically those two
things,  I  believe,  the need to be connected and the need to understand the
digital stuff, and the entertainment value.  The realism that digital brings,
the  ability  (and  you  guys  have  shown it more than anybody) to take your
imagination  and digitally project it.  I'm amazed when I see what NewTek has
done, when you see a movie and they say, "Well, you know that whole scene had
nothing  to  do  with  video.   It's all digital graphics producing it." Just
imagine  what that's going to become in the future.  I think those two things
are going to drive a brand new market, and, guess what?  The other guys don't
own it yet.




I  believe  that  they  are  trying to own it, but there's three fears, three
basic  fears that's stopping, well let's say in the US.  They say that 40% of
the households in the US have a PC, well, 60% don't.  Why?  I believe there's
three  basic  fears,  and  this  goes for the rest of the world as well.  The
first  fear  is how much time is it going to take for me to figure out how to
use this stupid thing, and then after I use it, is it really going to give me
what  I want?  They're scared to buy a product that's got all these things on
the  screen  and, it's like, I don't see anything in here that says how I can
send an email, or things like that.  I believe that there's a big fear there,
that if we can accomplish that and make that easy, then that's one thing that
will build bridges to this new market.

Another  thing  is the dollar investment.  How much money do I really want to
invest  to  buy  a PC when I can use a notepad, buy this new thing when I can
just  watch  my TV, get this new box when I can just use my telephone.  I can
read  a  magazine, and those things.  I believe that when the prices continue
to  drop,  and we're seeing the PC market drop, but because of this operating
system  that  uses  so  many  resources.   How  do they ever get to the point
they're  going to get to?  It's going to be a real chore for them.  I believe
that Amiga's operating system has the efficiency to get to those products.

The  other  fear that people have is obsolescence.  If I buy this today, next
week  some new thing is going to come out that I'm not going to be able to do
when  I  just bought this thing yesterday.  Or, the value of this is going to




drop  so  much  because there is a new CPU coming out or whatever.  In my new
plan,  I  believe  we  can  actually  overcome that.  That's one thing that I
really  can't talk about, but there's a way to actually do that, and it's not
going  to  be  based  on the typical architectures here today, but, it can be
done.

We do need to talk about standards.  Because this market is being seen by all
these  companies,  you  basically  have  every  PC  company,  every  consumer
electronic  company,  telephones,  cable companies, broadcast companies.  You
name  it.  They're all in this huge acquisition and partnering flurry because
they  don't  know  who  the  leader  is  going  to be.  Basically, one of the
questions  that  keeps  coming  up  is,  do they want a standard for this new
industry?   Well,  I believe they do want standards, but they do not want any
one  company  to control them.  I think that's one of the great things we can
do.   We  can look at our competition and say, "what are they doing wrong and
what  can  we do right?" That's one of the reasons why I'm not going to stand
up  hare  and make promises about vaporware that we're going to come out with
in  two  years.  When we tell you what we're going to do, I really want to be
honest  and  say it's coming, it's true, this is what's going to happen.  The
hard  part  about that is that it's going to take time to develop this.  It's
going  to  take time to launch this.  What I'm telling you now is we're going
down into the valley, and we're going to keep going into the valley before we
can actually come back out of it.  So, what I'd also like to tell you is that
if  you  have  to  do other things, whatever you have to do to survive, never




leave that piece in your heart that says Amiga.

Everyone wants to know about the upgrade probably.

We  do  have  a  small  staff,  we  do have several people that we have under
contract, and you probably heard an awful lot of rumors about us working with
other  companies to actually come up with the upgrade.  That is true.  We are
working  with  several  companies  to  actually take what's been produced out
there, take the best pieces of that, try to integrate that, and also add some
new  value  and  come  out  with  the  release.  Petro talked about the third
quarter  this year.  We still don't know exactly when we're going to come out
with  that, but as we get closer, we will make announcements.  I can tell you
in  general  what  the  areas  are that we're putting the highest priority on
right  now.   We're  working  the  hardest on having full internet solutions.
We'd  like  to  make  some  enhancements  to  the user interface.  We want to
support more industry standards, as many as we can in this release.

The  other  thing  that's  very  important,  because  we're  a  licensing and
technology  company,  we're not planning in the near future coming out with a
new  box.   We're looking for OEMs to do those hardware and those pieces that
we'll  be  licensing  the technology to.  One of the things we really need to
hear  is  from  all you people through the users groups and through the ICOA,
the  Developers Groups, what you're developing, what you'd like see.  We want
to support those things in the operating system.




Another  thing we're going to do is have better documentation, especially for
the  developers.   It's important that we oversee all of the new changes, but
we want the Amiga communities to build and build and build.  If someone wants
to come up with a device that's a robot built on Amiga technology, I'd say go
for it.

Basically,  we're  working on those things, and there are more.  I do want to
say  that I don't want to just concentrate on what we call OS 3.5.  I want to
concentrate  on  what  we  call  expanding the operating system and go to new
levels.   Because  3.5  is  just  going to be a start and there will be more,
we'll  continue to add.  So, don't think that when 3.5 comes out, `oh, that's
what  all  these  guys  were  working  on'.   No, we're working on a lot more
things.   They're  just  not  ready to be released at that point.  Don't ever
forget  that the big plan, and I want to say this.  I said it to my employees
this week.  I sat them down and I said, "You guys, have I been ignoring you a
lot?"  And  they  said yes.  I said, "That's on purpose." And they asked why,
and  I  said,  "Because  we  need to figure out what the future is.  And that
doesn't  mean we don't keep working on the current stuff, because that's what
we  need  to  do  as well.  But if we can cement our future, we can come back
stronger than we ever have.  That's what I've been working on." So, I want to
tell  you the same thing.  I apologize right now that I've been ignoring you.
That is true.  I'm trying to work the future and get it approved and bring us
into  the  future.  The future's going to be a little time off, but if we get
there, it'll be one major party.
