




State of the Amiga Address (March 27, 1998) by Joe Tracy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

My  fellow  Amiga  owners,  friends,  and  interested  parties.  For the past
several  years  the  Amiga  computer  has  faced  criticisms, attacks, and an
uncertain  future.  It has endured constant bashings from many fronts and the
abandonment  of  many  companies.  It has been bounced around from company to
company  and has seen its share of ownership bankruptcies.  I'm here today to
tell  you  that  some  of  those criticisms are true, some of the attacks are
justified,  and  even some of the bashings are factual.  But I'm also here to
tell  you that all of those are obstacles and obstacles are what you see when
you  take  your  eyes  off  the goal.  Thanks to the continued support of the
Amiga  community,  there  stands  before us a powerful system waiting for the
right person to unleash its full potential.  Has that person - that knight in
shining armor - arrived?

A History Lesson

The  Amiga  was  originally conceived as a games machine, in 1982, to compete
against the leading game machine at the time, Atari.  Meaning "girlfriend" in
Spanish,  Amiga  became much more than a "gaming computer" within a few short
years.   The Amiga was very much advanced for its time, in the mid-80's, when
the  first  Amiga  1000  units  began  shipping  to  customers.   Its closest




competitor  was  a  286  PC,  which  cost  a couple of thousand dollars more!
Commodore  was  the first major company to purchase the Amiga.  It lasted for
nine  fairly strong years, even endeavoring the extreme lack of marketing and
the ignorance of Commodore.

NewTek's introduction of the Video Toaster in the early 1990s led to many new
sales  of  the  Amiga  and  brought  a  huge  recognition  to a platform that
relatively  few  people still new about.  But the lack of proper marketing of
the  Amiga  led  to  the  demise of Commodore, in 1994, when it was forced to
liquidate  its  assets.   Commodore  had  failed.   Perhaps this was the most
critical  part  in  the history of the Amiga.  The platform was still in good
shape with features that competitors could only dream about (like dual-stream
video,  broadcast  quality  signal  standards, multitasking, etc.).  The next
purchaser would determine the direction that the computer would take.

Many companies showed an interest in taking over the Amiga technology.  There
were  companies  like  Samsung,  Philips,  Amstrad,  and  even  Commodore UK,
fighting  for  the  Amiga rights.  But ultimately (one year later), a company
called  Escom won out.  It looked like the Amiga was in the clear even though
it had taken a major downfall over the course of its stagnant year during the
"battle  of  who-would-be-owner."  Try  as they might, Escom was forced about
nine  months  later,  because  of bankruptcy, to try and sell off their Amiga
assets.   VIScorp  looked  like  the  leading  candidate, but months of legal
wranglings  left  the door wide open.  QuikPak jumped into the picture and it




looked  like  they  might have it sealed up when news of a "surprise" bidder,
Gateway  2000  surfaced  (March  27,  1997).  It was a matter of a week or so
before  Gateway  2000 had the deal sealed and shortly thereafter took control
of the possessions.  That brings us a year later to today.

The Knights of the Round Table

The  Amiga  today is made up of many companies and people that represent "The
Knights  of  the Round Table" (figuratively speaking).  These are groups that
have  the strength, intelligence, and wisdom to make the Amiga a strong force
throughout  the land.  These are companies like QuikPak, Phase 5, Amiga, Inc.
and  Amiga  International.   At  the  head  of  the  table  sits King Arthur,
represented  by  Gateway  2000.   In  this situation, the goal of King Arthur
seems to be to spend a long time devising a strategy while the attacks around
him continue.  Yet if you sit around too long devising strategies, instead of
joining  the  battle, your kingdom will be quickly overcome.  Yes, there is a
such  thing  as waiting too long.  If you are not on the battle field leading
the  battle then you are not helping the cause.  Your soldiers will soon tire
of the inability to be effective and many allies will be lost.

With  the  acquisition  of the Amiga, by Gateway 2000, reaching a year and no
new  hardware (or even a new O/S) introduced, the journey is starting to seem
very long.  Some of the knights, like Vulcan Software, have had to move on to
other  units  (greener pastures) because the delays in commitments by Gateway




2000  crippled  their  ability  to  be  productive.  Can other knights be far
behind?

Let's  be  very  direct  here:  An excellent strategy implemented too late is
much  worse than an average or good strategy implemented in a timely fashion.
Strategies  implemented too late almost always fail because it is just that -
too late!

Is the Battle Lost?

It  seems like I'm receiving an email virtually every day from someone saying
that they have given up on the Amiga and changed platforms.  This is not good
news!   Every  day  Gateway 2000 waits, more users are lost and the community
loses  more  allies.   Gateway  2000  needs to take a serious look today (not
tomorrow,  but  today)  at  what  their  strategies  are  and implement those
strategies!   They  cannot  afford to lose more allies because for every ally
they lose, the "enemy" gains one.

My  life in video productions has always been built around the Amiga.  Simply
put,  there  is  not a better editing system than the Video Toaster and Video
Toaster  Flyer.   The  Amiga is part of the reason that the Flyer is so good.
Yet  for  animation,  the  Amiga was surpassed a few years ago and now I find
myself  doing  the majority of my LightWave 3D work on a 233MHz Pentium.  All
of  my business applications, accounting calculations, and desktop publishing




is  done on the same Pentium.  Why?  Because it is a better machine for those
needs.   Why  should  I  hamper my business by doing work on a system that is
inferior  in  applications  that  mean the most to my success?  That is why I
still  use  an  Amiga  for  video  - it still reigns as a superior system and
product (the Video Toaster Flyer, thanks to NewTek).

But  what  happens  if Gateway 2000 doesn't make commitments to the Amiga and
companies  like  NewTek abandon it?  The answer is that I abandon it too, and
as  others  also abandon it, the "system that couldn't die" will die.  It's a
sad  thought, but the simple fact is that the future of the Amiga computer is
in  the hands of Gateway 2000 and if all the allies and knights are forced to
leave  King Arthur then no one will be left to defend Camelot!  The battle is
today, not tomorrow.

Reassure Camelot!

So what is the answer?

1)  Gateway  2000  must  reassure the community that it has a battle plan, is
following  it,  and  is  taking daily action (including allocation of money).
This reassurance must be sincere!

2)  Gateway  2000  needs to tell the Amiga community what it is doing to help
promote the Amiga and to get companies lost back on board (and/or new ones).




3)  A  standard  system  needs to be developed that other companies can build
upon.   Until  there is a standard system, it is not profitable for companies
(and even users) to come back.

This  is  just  a  start.  Gateway 2000 must address the users as King Arthur
would  address his knights and troops!  We must hear a solid battle plan from
the  head  of  Gateway 2000 so that we can have our faith restored and double
our support.

In  this  quest  it  is  important  to  remember that Gateway 2000, like King
Arthur,  is  strategically  smart.  Gateway 2000 is a very successful company
based  on  strategies,  marketing,  and  implementation  of  ideas.  If it is
serious  about  the  Amiga platform, then the platform will grow by leaps and
bounds,  which is something that Commodore couldn't do with a system ahead of
its time and ready to take on the world.

A  year ago the big announcement was made about Gateway 2000's successful bid
for  the Amiga technology.  A year later we are not much further than before.
Hopefully  Gateway  2000's  strategy  accounts for this fact.  While Phase 5,
QuikPak,  and  others  have  been  busy  trying  to  advance  the system, the
subsidiaries   of   Gateway  2000  have  done  little  outside  of  licensing
announcements.   Yet,  without  Gateway 2000 being directly involved, Camelot
will be lost!




Is there an Excalibur?

It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  Gateway  2000  realizes  what  it has in its
possession.  The Amiga, contrary to what some may say, is not (and never was)
a  toy.  It is responsible for the success of thousands of users in graphics,
video,  animation,  and  many other fields.  In fact, it was just a few short
years  ago  that LightWave 3D on the Amiga was being used for many network TV
shows!  It was being used to help launch NASA rockets and to propel thousands
of  careers to new heights!  And now the opportunity presents itself one last
time.

It  is  my  understanding  that the subsidiaries of Gateway 2000 (Amiga, Inc.
and  Amiga  International)  will  soon  (1-3  months)  address the Amiga user
community.   Gateway  2000  must  establish a goal - one major goal - for the
Amiga, then focus on that goal and move forward full steam.

I know many successful people and companies that all have one thing in common
- when they see a goal, they let nothing stand in their way to reach the goal
for "obstacles are what you see when you take your eyes off the goal." I have
a  hope  that  Gateway  2000 will come through with some big plans and I know
that  if  those  plans  are implemented soon that the Amiga will stand a very
good  chance.   And  who  knows...one  day  I may no longer be using a PC for
animation,  a  PC for business applications, and a PC for desktop publishing.
Maybe  I'll  be  using  an  Amiga.   It  could happen if the Amiga once again




becomes  a  superior system!  So, Gateway 2000, raise the Excalibur high into
the air and let the battles begin!
