  »PIC:Kol1.iff» 















»CL0:Welcome to issue 34 of »CL1:The Official
Eurochart». Once again we are delighted
to present you with the most
comprehensive chart section on the

scene (»CL8:BVADR! -CTN»), a huge gallery
section and a few entertaining and
thoughtprovoking articles.

But most importantly, the so-called
summer has come, though you cannot say
that the weather that corresponds to
this particular season has managed to
pull itself through to the meagre
country of Denmark.

But as the rain is falling outside,
loud thunder and bright lightning
occasionally disturbing eyes and ears,
we are working on productions with 
which we hope to create similar 
conditions in the minds of the sceners
watching them.

And we hope to do the same with this
mindblasting issue of »CL1:The Official
Eurochart», and also hope that the
weather will change about NOW so that
it will be comfortable to drag our
sore bodies outside into the sunshine,
carrying a 24-pack of beer or two,
being prepared to meet summer love at
its most refreshing.

Perhaps this is too much to hope for,
yet we set our expectations for the
good weather to come eventually, and
you to have just enough time to enjoy
this issue of »CL1:The Official Eurochart»
to the fullest - and good luck with
the summer loving to you as well.

»CL2:We are having some small discussions
within the staff (»CL3:Curt Cool» and
»CL3:Cytron», that is) - size vs. quality.
As you might know - the »CL3:EC#33» was on
three disks - a tendency that we at
that time didn't want to continue.
This time - however, we have the same
'problem' again.
One could say that three disks are no
problem at all, but we would of course
like some response to this.
Seen from our point of view certain
other mags are growing even more
rapidly in size than we are. If this
is good or bad is not up to us, but
you - the readers - to decide.
Make your choice!
That is all for now. Enjoy your
girlfriends/boyfriends (political
correctness Uber Alles!) ,the sun, and
your beers.
