»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:    »BIG:Insomnia - Star in a new era?»
»CL9:--------------------------------------

             »CL4:By Curt Cool

»CL0:Through the history of the Amiga
scene diskmagazines, one or two 
has always stood out from the crowd -
first it was »CL1:Zine», then it was »CL1:Raw»
with »CL1:Upstream» coming up close, and 
after that, »CL1:ROM» has been topping the
charts for a long while - but now, it
is a long time since the last issue of
»CL1:ROM» was released »CL1:(November '97)» and 
there is a hard struggle going on at 
the top of the charts between 
»CL1:Seenpoint», »CL1:Generation» and »CL1:ROM» with
»CL1:Showtime» as a qualified outsider.
And although »CL1:MOP/Essence» assures us
that »CL1:issue #10» of »CL1:ROM» definitely will
be released, the long-ruling king of
of diskmags might be forced to abdice
for the benefit of »CL1:Seenpoint» or
»CL1:Generation», or perhaps even »CL1:Showtime».

»CL2:But on the other hand - »CL3:Generation» has
been going on for 26 issues now, and
is not released all that often - and
even the great »CL3:Fishwave» seem to show
signs of tiredness, quitting the
editorship of »CL3:Rage», and »CL3:Brainwasher»
stating in an email that him & 
»CL3:Fishwave» will move on to start a 
diskmagazine on »CL3:PC».
And if you ask me, »CL3:Showtime» lacks that
certain oomph a new multitasking,
perfectly functioning code would give
them - if that happened and the
editorship maintain the quality of
»CL2:articles featured in issue 11, they
might have the chance of topping.

»CL0:What does it take for a diskmagazine
to top the charts? A steady release
rate, at least in the beginning,
quality articles, good design & code 
which first and foremost ensures 
comfortable reading (no slow fades
between article pages, no screaming
colours or backgrounds to annoy the
eyes) & some decent music. And then
that certain last oomph that spices
the whole thing up a bit and makes it
stand out - given in an editor with
charisma, given in anything that gives
the magazine its own personality.
Also, it of course takes that the
magazine has its golden days at the
right moment.
»CL1:Insomnia» is a diskmagazine on the
rise if you look at the charts, it
features good code and its own
attitude towards the scene. The
chemistry between the editors seems to
be good, and the release rate seems to
be increasing, at least according to
main editor »CL1:Shade/TRSI» who promises us
a new issue of »CL1:Insomnia» by the end of
this month, »CL1:July 1998». In fact, if the
release rate stays at about every 4-5
months, I would say it contains what
it takes to reach the top after the
long delay between issue 1 and 2.

But how does the past, present and
future of »CL1:Insomnia» look like - let us
give the word to »CL1:Shade/TRSI».


»CL3:Insomnia - The story!

»CL2:The creation of »CL3:Insomnia», the actual
magazine with it's bits & bytes and
it's graphics was originally a »CL3:Looker
House» idea. The only thing they
actually lacked was a suitable
main-editor to fill in the empty
space in their staff. 

When asking me through »CL3:IRC» one day,
knowing that I've had a lot of
experience with creation of magazines
in my earlier days, I instantly
answered yes. I had been developing
»CL3:SUICID» under the label of »CL3:TRSI» (Or
should we say, the rebirth of »CL3:SUICID»,
the once mediocre magazine from
»CL3:Uyanik») for some time back then, but
having seen nothing new when it comes
to code for a long time, I wasn't
hard to convince. 

That's how the magazine became a »CL3:TRSI»
& »CL3:LKR» production.

In cooperation with »CL3:GDM», »CL3:DMD» and
»CL3:Juggler» / »CL3:LKR», I developed the design
and the general atmosphere of the
magazine in the first days/weeks to
come. We had a marvellous dialogue
and a pushy »CL3:GDM», so everything just
sort of worked out.

I believe this was back in the spring
of 1997.




»CL2:Since I have been writing for some
time (although I never got to
release much) I had some good
contacts in the writing-scene, so to
speak, and I rapidly snatched »CL3:Excel /
Balance» (Known for his first issue of
»CL3:Friendchip»), »CL3:Blunt / GHD» and
»CL3:Bytebreaker / LKR» to my staff of
writers. This proved to be a
trumendeous success with them all
being very hard working and
determined.

We found the tone and were able to
work very close to eachother during
the process of making both issue 1
and 2, this being one of the keys to
what we have already achieved.


We released issue 1, the birth of
»CL3:Insomnia», in early July, 1997 and it
was a mere success. I was happy, my
staff was happy and we were very
proud of what we had been able to
achieve with our magazine's first
issue. I believe we were lucky
concidering that all of us had
previous magazine experience, thus
knowing what we were doing to some
extent.
After the release of issue 1, »CL3:Blunt»
dissapeared into thin air, leaving us
with no news editor. There were also
some other motivational problems in
the staff, and we had to turn
elsewhere for support. »CL3:Grey / Crux»
became the saving-angel this time
with »CL3:Bytebreaker» also doing one hell
of a good job (Don't know what I
would do without them both.)

Again perfect harmony and spirit
arose and we were able to present
issue 2 in the late days of February,
1998.

At this time I was serving my country
in form of military service,
something that made working fast very
hard. This is one of the reasons why
issue 2 was so delayed and now, issue
3 is even more delayed. I am happy to
say that I have finised off that shit
now, and we are very likely able to
present issue 3 in the late days of
July, 1998. Hopefully even bigger and
better than ever before.


There has been only one change in the
staff from issue 2 to issue 3 - »CL3:Soda
/ DKG» signed up and have contributed
with some heavy stuff for issue 3.
Apart from the fact that »CL3:Excel» has
more or less retired both from the
scene and the magazine itself, it
seems as if we've been able to
stabilize, hopefully resulting in a
more stabile production from issue 3
and onwards. 
Of course we want to be able to
release our magazine every second
month, but to tell you the truth, we
don't see the point in releasing some
thin issue or an issue where quantity
is in the spotlight rather than
quality. We will rather live with our
delays and be fully content with what
we present to the public.
When it comes to issue 3, we will be
presenting »CL3:Insomnia» with a completely
new menu panel. The change will
definitly not be complete as we're
very satisfied with the looks and
"feel" of the magazines first two
issues, but you will be able to see a
new menu panel and some additional
clips etc. 

We will have 3-4 modules in issue 3
like both issue 1 and 2 and we'll use
a title picture from Made
presumably. You will just have to
wait and see.





We hope that the audience will
appreciate issue 3 just as much as
they appreciated issue 1 and 2
ofcourse. We have put a lot of work
into it, I can tell you that.

Finally, I would like to thank all
our supporters and readers! Without
you this would never have been
possible. THANKS!
»CL9:                 ---»

»CL0:We here at the »CL1:Eurochart» thank »CL1:Shade»
for his help with this article, look
forward to issue 3 of »CL1:Insomnia» and
wish the editors of »CL1:Insomnia» as well
as the editors of all the other
scenezines the best of luck in the
future - we need you all and we know
you will take up the competition!