»SML:»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:      »BIG:Hysteria - are votes fair?»
»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:         By Kollaps/Instinct

»CL0:The idea by writing this article is an
old idea I've had for years, but first
now I decide to write it. Therefore
some things in the text may be too old
for some readers to remember.
 I have read the »CL1:Eurochart» frequently
since 1991 and there are allways
things in the charts I don't agree
with. Don't we all feel the same some
times in between?? I guess so.
 But the mainpoint is, that some
sceners who really deserve to be on
the chart don't enter or some who
don't belong are placed where they
shouldn't be.

My first example are the wellknown
musicians »CL1:Tip», »CL1:Firefox» and »CL1:Mantronix».
These 3 musicians really brought us
some great hits years ago. Ofcourse we
voted them into the charts. But who
entered? »CL1:Tip» and »CL1:Mantronix» were high
placed for many issues. Firefox was
not to find there...
Why did »CL1:Tip» and »CL1:MTX» enter? For some
time they were placed because of the
great module »CL1:"Musiklinjen"» from the 
»CL1:Phenomena»-demo »CL1:"Enigma"». No doubt one
of the best modules ever made. But if
you read the credits, you will see
that this module was made by »CL1:TIP» and
»CL1:FIREFOX»!! It is a fact that »CL1:Tip» and
»CL1:MTX» worked most together, but this
»CL0:famous module was not made by »CL1:MTX».
Only our confusion and hysteria made
us vote for »CL1:TIP&MTX». »CL1:Firefox» remained
forgotten....

»CL2:The masters of hard and fast
innovative code were »CL3:The Spy» and
»CL3:Deftronic». All their first demos were
made by them both with no specific
who-did-what.
In »CL3:Hardwired», the credits were more
specific and »CL3:The Spy» seemed to be the
most active there. He topped the
charts for long time. I agree with
that, since he WAS one of the best
ever.
But (allways a but) where ended
»CL3:Deftronic»? Of course he did not as
much as »CL3:The Spy» in Hardwired, but to
exclude him from the chart at all
would not be so fair...  he actually
made »CL3:Trash'm'One», which no others are
able to. And on the other hand - had
nobody seen their earlier productions
from 1990 where they already there
made pure codemagic?
Ok, later he entered the chart, but so
did all the other »CL3:Hardwired»-coders too.
I can't remember if »CL3:Murphy» entered
(responsible for some hard vector) but
»CL3:Guzzler» entered! And for what?? It was
of course because of the transforming
linevector which looked great! But as
far as I have understood, he only made
the linevector..! It was »CL3:Saxs» who made
the transforming plotmorph. So there
the voters got carried away again!

»CL1:The party 1992.
»CL0:At the democompetition a demo called
»CL1:PurpleBrain»CL0: by »CL1:KGB» contributed. It got
one of the last places and remained
forgotten. But not in my mind!!!
This demo contains some of the hardest
code ever!! It contains blitterrotated
texturemapping and realtime
raytracing and very complex real
lightsource vector. Blitterrotated
pictures is as far as I know only made
by »CL1:Rob Rose/Brainstorm» (»CL1:Blitter
Miracle»/1991) and »CL1:Mr.Pet/Sanity»
(»CL1:Turmoil»/1991 and »CL1:W.O.C.» /1992)
Something that the winners »CL1:Lonestarr»
and »CL1:Hannibal» never dared dream about.
But what caused the bad placing?
Design, music and GFX! The demo
contained awful music, bad GFX and a
lousy design. All this is lame, but it
hurts me that some people even called
the code bad because of that!!  I
agree that the demo looks awful, but
nothing can hide the fact that the
routines were superb!! I voted for the
coders behind that demo in the
»CL1:Eurochart(tm)» and it seemed that I was
the only voter for them. This means
that if a nontalented coder entered a
known group and only made the selector
for a musicdisk or slideshow with some
known artists, then that coder would
be great and enter the charts?
I really feel sorry for »CL1:ZX68» and »CL1:U235»
of »CL1:KGB» who made that superb code in 
»CL1:PurpleBrain». I remembered you and i
voted for you in the chart!! Your work
wasn't wasted! I do still watch this
demo, since it contains routines that
I still can't figure out to make!!!



»CL0:These examples were the ones that i
have been thinking at for long time.
Now it's 1998 and I may ask: »CL1:"is it
still like that?"»

Well, I don't want to cause any
trouble, but I think that some coders
on the chart only are placed because
of some nice vectorobjects. What I
mean about this, is that nothing new
has happended since »CL1:Shaft7» and
»CL1:Thuglife».
Everybody makes the same code and the
only things that improve is the way of
designing vectorobjects. If a demo
contains some great sceneries, then
the coder gets all the honour. But not
if he just showed another doughnut
nomatter how fast and smooth it is... 
I think that much of the credit that
way should go to the 3d-modellist
(tracer). Thats mabye an idea for a
new chart??! So please try to be more
critical and find out what is code and
what is design, before you let your
votes run away. A good friend of mine,
»CL1:Amadeus of Shelter», admitted that he
gets carried away by nice textures and
forgets to judge the difficulty in the
code. Many people gets tempted that
way. (Some times me too...!)
I really respect fast code with fast
C2P's and fast Polygons, but nothing
new has happended since »CL1:ThugLife». Not
even the Amazing »CL1:"Rise"» by »CL1:Mellow
Chips»! This demo is the most beautiful
demo ever! But I must say, that the
code is  not innovating, as far as I
can see!
I'm not critisizing it, but nothing
»CL0:new has happended there since »CL1:"DIM"»
from 1996.
Where are the innovating routines? Are
coders lazy?? Everybody makes »CL1:Thuglife»
and »CL1:Shaft7» clones. Try to look at the
PC-scene. Have anybody seen »CL1:"Machines
of Madness"» by »CL1:Dubius» (winner of
Assembly 1996)? This demo contains
REAL shadow calculation and REAL
mirror calculations. Imagine how hard
it is to make with texturemapping!
Such things haven't been seen on Amiga
since »CL1:"Beyond the future"» by »CL1:Union» in
1994 (code by »CL1:Musashi»).
I made a demo called »CL1:"TurboTronic"» for
TheParty97 (but got rejected since it
didn't work on the organizers
A1260%$%$) and this demo contained
shadows and mirrors. I was very proud
of this heavy routine. It was not easy
to make! And i am sure that it was not
even most optimal! So I look forward
to see some of you fast coders out
there make some demos with mathematics
in and not the noninnovative demoes we
see now. The only mirrors we see now
are ENV or fake-feedback. These things
have NOTHING to do with REAL
mirrors!!!      Refresh your maths!!!




         »PIC:Cyt1.iff»






So voters, try not to be carried away
because of nice looking textures or
athmospheric design and music. Code is
code and if you are in doubt whether a
routine is hard or not, then do not
vote at that demo/person/group. Only
if you are sure what you are voting at.

»CL2:Does anybody remember the »CL3:Budbrain»
debate? »CL3:Psycho/Budbrain» won the
»CL3:TSL/RSI» party in 1990 by not making
hard code, but only funny cartoons.
Many coders got mad at that, since
coding was what it all was about.
The same thing repeated again around
»CL3:1992-1993», where »CL3:design» became the
most important thing. Many coders
entered the charts only by inventing
new design (often the graphic-artists
invented it...!) and making some
seenbefore glenz vectors but in new
colors and pink spritelogos and so on.
In »CL3:1995-1996» a new demorevolution came
with the »CL3:fastram-configurations». Many
new things appeared as ENV and
Bumpmap. Texturemapping, Gouraud and
Voxel were already invented, but they
went throug a new development caused
by the new possibilities. A brave new
world was conquered!
The high-peak happended at »CL3:TP96» when
»CL3:Shaft7» and »CL3:Makaveli» were shown.
Routines could not be faster. 
..Sadly innovation couldn't either...!

So I look forward to see new ideas and
complexity as mentioned about the
shadows and mirrors.
And for voters not to be emotionally
carried away! Be more critical! 