»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:        »BIG:Thoughts on Piracy»
»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:        By Skinner of Abigail

»CL0:The Amiga software market is small and
very shallow. the fact that there is
less piracy on the Amiga scene now
than before is good, but you cannot
front on the fact that piracy hurts
more now than before. »CL1:Why?» Because the
scene is smaller and less stabile.

Take a good look on your hard-drive,
how many of your frequently used
programs have you actually bought or
registered? have you registered »CL1:AWeb»,
or simply faked your own keyfile? Have
you registered »CL1:AmIRC» or are you using
someone elses keyfile? As »CL1:Curt Cool»
said in »CL1:EC#33», there are lots of
shareware on the Amiga scene, but it
won't stay constant if nobody bothers
to register! One good example is the
authors of »CL1:Directory Opus» reckon they
have sold »CL1:1/10» of the program
referring to »CL1:CU Amiga» - not much is
it? How many of you do have Dopus on
your HD (I know there have been Dopus
giveaways!)?

»CL2:Software developers are just like
other workers and should be paid
regulary. What if your boss said on
your payday that he can't afford to
pay you - or it was to much hazzle to
go in the bank with the salaries? You
would not work for that company
anymore and the same regarding the
Amiga software marked. If no ones
bothers to register, the coders move
on to a platform where their work is
appreciated. The Amiga has several
good programs; just to mention »CL3:AmIRC»
as an example. But will the
development of this program continue
if no one supports the coder on the
financial aspects? Guess not.

The infamous »CL3:ClickBOOM» announced their
new markets on the »CL3:PSX» and »CL3:PC» scene as
the Amiga market is too small. Of
course we are all sad about this
decision, but it is a matter of life
and death for a company and the
employment of people; they have to do
what they have to do to survive, no
hazzle about that, is there? But, who
is to blame?  

»CL0:The morale of this story is to spend
some money on software. If you hold on
to your money we risk the Amiga
software scene to become even
shallower and the periods between the
good releases become even longer than
they are now.

But don't go ahead and buy a lot of
software you don't need; at least
register something you use frequently
and support the Amiga software scene.
In the end it all comes back to you as
a user!

If you should wonder; I am not an
employee of any of the companies
mentioned in this article. 