
                             OoOoOoOoOoOoOoO
                            
                             DVIZE/KRONICAL
                             Mark
                             29 Diane Cres.
                             Mooroolbark 3138
                             Victoria
                             Australia
                            
                             OoOoOoOoOoOoOoO


Hi Zenit!

Thanks for the nice stuff!  Well, ya gave me a short message, so its going
to be hard to make this letter anywhere near long.

How was the party?  I'm just starting to get some of the stuff now, and
most of it is pretty cool.  I have just returned from a scene party here 
in Australia.  It was pretty lame, but nice to see some friends that are
only known through letters and phone calls.  It took me 13 hours to reach the
party and a lot of money, so I was pretty disappointed!  It was held by Pearl
by the way.  There was only 3 demo's released and the voting system was
fucked, so overall it was shit!  I have sent you one of the party demo
entries.  Its only a preview to a demo, but the effect is quite nice.  I am
good friends with the crew (SPECTRE!) and they have asked me to spread it for
them as they don't have any good swappers, (I am not saying I am a good
swapper, but I said I could help them by spreading it to my contacts, all
20 of them!!!)  If you could, put it on your BBS coz its new stuff and no-one
has it yet.  Even spread by mail to your contacts if you like.  

Hey dood!  Be careful when you cut my stamps off the envelope!  You cut them
in half last time!!!

FELON says he will call the BBS soon.  He also says thankyou for the greet!
His BBS (INSANE OVERDOSE - KRL WHQ!) should be up again soon!  KRL now has few
of Australias best BBS's which is cool.  I think we have 9 now, so give em'
a call.  Don't leave mail to me coz I am too poor to own a modem.  Do you
want to buy me one! :)  

Do you release Util disks?  If its you that I have been told about, send
me some coz I have heard they're hot stuff!  

Send me some advertz or even some article by you??? in your next send for
our new magazine and our pack-mag!  Do you do muzak?  I will have a chip-pak
soon, so if you want a chip-tune in it, you know what to do!  I have put
my advert on the disk, so if there are any Compact productions that have
advert sections, put them in!!!

Well, I can't think of anymore to say, so I will end now.  OK?  Cool!
Write back soon...

Regards,

Mark!

Dvize/Kronical


P.S.  Stamps kcab!
      Vote please!

*** Please delete my letter off the disk if you spread it!!!