                    »CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
                 »CL8:»BIG:Scening on High Spec Computers? HAH!
»CL9:»SML:                    --------------------------------------

           »CL4:by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL8:Have you settled in for this article?
Are you sitting comfortably, waiting
for me to begin a neutral and
non-provocative article? Well then you
must turn to other articles I'm
afraid, what I am going to write about
here, will make your piss overboil if
you're one of those 'let's upgrade to
get better demos' simplicists. 

Ahh yes, lately I have discovered how
fun it is to write provoking articles,
especially when you really mean what
you write, heh. There has been some




discussion about this topic before,
about sceners having to upgrade to
watch the newest productions, and
while some have said that it is
senseless producing e.g. that many 060
demos (maybe they will run on less,
but then they are virtually
slideshows, so those demos ARE 060
demos), when the recent scene survey
shows that roughly half of the scene
still has a 030 Amiga, I will go one
step further. Or as some of you would
have it, I will go one more step
BACKWARDS, hehe. Why produce stuff for
upper end Amiga's, and not for OCS
Amiga's?
»CL0:Some of you might be about to
virtually shout 'WHY do we need to go
back to that old stuff again??'. While
todays demos are ok, there is an 
unfortunate tendency to view bigger as 
better, that is, the more hardware, 
the better for the demo, if people 
don't upgrade, the scene will die or 
suffer, since people should produce 
stuff for the best configuration to 
show off the skills of the machine and 
themselves. This is actually a quite 
twisted and wrong attitude. This
article will explain inn depth why I
think so.

What you're basically saying is 
that bigger is better. While that is
true in some cases, it is hardly true
for art, and scenish productions IS
art, which I think was the conclusion
of our art debate a year or so ago.
What matters is the talent, ofcourse
the tools matter too in the execution
of your talent, but you can't use the
analogy like that.

  »PIC:Budgie-euro3.iff»












Rather, a taoistic painter who carves
wood to depict nature works in one
way, and a western painter like
»CL0:Cezanne who works with a lot of colors
depicts nature in another way, you
can't judge and say what is the
greatest art on the basis of the tools
they are using, and that's what this
analogy should show, that it is not
the computerspecs making a good demo,
indeed, if we have  two equally good
groups, one who makes an A500 demo,
the other a PPC demo, you can NOT say
that the PPC demo is the better,
speaking of artistic/aesthetic value,
because of the specs it has. Sure it
might be said that there are nice,
coded effects that can never be made
without enough processorpower for
instance, but that will likely always
be true, no matter how much hardware
you got, it isn't an argument in
itself for why  we should need to
upgrade, and there's also other
effects which we have a very hard time
doing in chunky for instance, effects
that have largely died off because it
is too hard to do them, so that's in
effect the same thing. If you say that
the newer effects are more realistic,
or more pleasing to the eye, you might
be  right, atleast in making a true 
subjective statement, but I will 
write about realism later on. 
Therefore my conclusion so far is that 
the specs is not what determines a 
good product. 



»CL8:What is the scene about? Friendship 
and fun is one thing, getting the most 
out of your machine is another. I 
think those two are the essential 
things the scene is about. But why
should it be about having the biggest
computer you can have, and making
productions for it? You can do that
ofcourse, but saying that we have to
upgrade to keep the scene alive is
just not true. The scene has always
been about excelling with limited
resources. As Mr.Tickle writes in his
excellent article about nearly the
same topic in the recently released
Devotion #1, bigger and bigger
computers just make sure you could end
up coding a demo in Visual Basic, what
is the purpose of that? In order for
people to be able to judge your skill,
you have to work with limited
resources. Also, it should be way more
fun and rewarding beating the
computer, doing a great routine and
getting praise for it, than doing some
3D stuff on a PPC where people will
only think "oh, that's nice", never
"ohh, that coder is really skilled!".
Come on, you hardware hogs, the scene
has never been about upgrading, don't
stress it as important for the scene
to upgrade. Try to calm down and
produce stuff which 030 owners can
watch atleast, or are you not skilled
enough to do that? 





»CL8:All this upgrading seems to move
the scene towards a certain thing,
called realism, or the real world. If
we reach that point, the scene as we
know it will have died. The ultimate
goal of all these 3D worlds is to look
as realistic as possible (far off as
that might be), thus we see far more
3D worlds than weird 2D/3D effects 
like plasma, twisters, glenzcubes, 
etc., etc. In our music this has also 
become apparent. Musicians need better
(bigger) samples and more channels.
Why? To make their music sound like
music in the real world it seems.
Ideally, some musicians would prefer 
MP3's in a demo. The result is that
the scene music whether we think 
about it or not, sounds more and more 
like real world music. Graphicians use
photoshop (uups sorry, make that
Imagefx), indeed, some scan real world
pictures, work them over a little,
and then release them or throw them
into demos. Coders, musicians and
graphicians seem to move towards the
real world and realism quite much,
atleast a lot of them do. 

»CL0:What's wrong with all this realism?
Well for one thing, it is boring, but
that is a subjective statement, so you
might disregard it. It is also
unoriginal though, we just copy the
styles and vogues of the real world,
indeed, we even try to make our demos
resemble the real world in terms of 3D
for instance. This is not just
unoriginal, it is also very stupid and
unscenish in the long run. The scene
had a niche where it excelled, where
it was top professional. Coders made
strange effects without any realism,
but with a lot of attraction for geeks,
musicians excelled in mastering the
limits of the 4channels (or 3, heh),
creating memorable masterpieces, and
graphicians did a lot of impressive
pixelgfx, like stunning logo's, etc.
We were good at that, people respected
us for it, eventhough they couldn't
understand it, heh. Now though, the
scene is going mainstream, and as you
know, there are a lot of dangers
inherent in this. Loosing your
originality and previous spirit for
one, but also the danger of simply
disappearing in the masses. Face it,
our musicians try to emulate real
world music, but how many have the
talent to stand out there? Or our
graphicians, many have been very good,
but when compared to all the other
artists in the world (those artists
whose images our gfx'ers have
continually drawed themselves), who
would notice them? The scene is a
niche, and it has been a very
successful niche. We have learned to
master what we do (or did), but all
this upgrading MIGHT lead to what I
have just depicted, and what is more
important, UPGRADING IS NOT NECCESARY
IN THE SCENE! If what I have written
is not proof enough of that, just look
at the C64 scene. Known and respected
BECAUSE of the limitations they have. 

»CL8:So.. I'm not saying that watching e.g.
PPC demos couldn't be cool, only that
it isn't the be all and end all of
things. That I for one would rather
watch A500 demos is a matter of taste,
and that's fine enough, but that the
scene HAS to upgrade is just plain
wrong. Indeed I think we will be
digging our own graves (well, we're
already doing that now, but..) if we
focus so much on upgrading. Relic was
fine, a piece of art too, and so some
PPC demos might be, but on the other
hand, Hardwired and Odyssey were works
of art too, and they are not worse
than Relic for instance, since art 
can't really be compared that way.

And with that, I will finish this
article, and begin on another one,
asking you all to participate in the
A500 demo movement, heh! :) 