»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
 »CL9:»BIG:THE THINGS THAT SHOULD NOT BE!
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Zerox/Gods

»CL0:Lately  a  new  annoying trend has hit
the    scene.     It's    of    course
the-bigger-the-better-trend!   If just
a  demo  is big enough, then it's very
good.   If a slideshow is many mb it's
good.    The   same   goes   also  for
musicdisks.   And  then  we  have  the
diskmags  which have to be enormous to
be  good.   Yes, just look at the last
issue   of  SeenPoint.   Together  the
files were alomost 1.2mb but it didn't
even have articles!!!


Anyway,  the  mentioned trend above is
not  THAT  annoying.   The  thing that
really irritates me, is of course that
all  productions  these  days  require
such  a  »CL9:high amount of memory.»  I can
understand     that     the     newest
demos/intros  require a good processor
and  much  memory,  but  not the other
productions.

In  one  sense  the  scene got »CL9:divided»
around  late  1993/beginning  of  1994
when  most  sceners  had bought an AGA
machine.   Most  people had the A1200,
but  also  many  got the A4000 as both
machines   got   launched   in   1992.
However, the sceners that weren't that
active  anymore,  the  ones  that were
unsure  if they wanted to continue and
others  that  didn't  want  to upgrade
more,  left  the  scene.   So then the
»CL9:scene lost quite some talented members»
which  just  thought the A500 was good
enough.    It   wasn't  taken  to  its
limits.   In  the  beginning of 1995 a
new  separation begun.  And ever since
it  has  been  a  constant  battle  to
»CL9:upgrade»  to  see the latest demos.  We
need  more memory and of course better
processors.   In  any  case,  this  is
perhaps  a necessary move to bring the
scene  better  demos/intros.  However,
»CL9:why  the  heck  should  we  need  more»
»CL9:memory and a better processor than the»
standard  A1200  for  instance just to
watch  a  slideshow?   Or to enjoy the
modules  on a musicdisk or to read the
articles  at  the  latest  mags?  This
surely beats me.

»CL8:Of   course  the  sceners  follow  the
hardware  developments  and want their
computer  to  be better, and therefore
the  newest demos require to be run on
good   machines.    But   why  do  for
instance  mags  need more memory?  The
latest  years  many  mags require more
than the standard 2mb.  The last issue
of  Jurassic  from Gods don't even run
on  my machine for some strange reason
or   another.    It's  the  same  with
another   of  the  best  mags  around,
ShowTime  from DarkAge.  I'm glad that
at  least the EuroChart still works on
an   a  standard  A1200!   What's  the
»CL9:purpose»   of   making  diskmags  which
require  a  better  processor  or more
memory? I don't really know.  The mags
released  5-6  years  ago  were infact
ALOT  better than todays mags and they
worked  fine  on  standard  A1200s and
some   even   worked  on  A500s.   The
essential  part  of a mag is of course
the  »CL9:articles.»   If  you  include 5-10
modules  and only a few articles, it's
a musicdisk and not a mag.  And if you
include  alot  of  fancy  routines and
only include a few articles, it's more
like  a demo.  It's nothing wrong with
some  special  effects in mags, but if
you  need a 060 processor it's a waste
of  time  to make a mag as half of the
scene   can't   even  read  it!   With
D.I.S.C.    we   hope   to   create  a
contra-trend.   We  will make the next
issue  work  on  most amigas with only
around  1mb  of  memory.  But we won't
stop with that - we hope to change the
graphics  in future issues and make it
work  even  on  an  A500!   This  will
include sceners, and not exclude them!
The  mag  won't  get  worse  with less
memory.






          »PIC:Darklight.+EC_07.iff»










»CL0:Then   we   have  the  slideshows  and
musicdisks.   I  can't  understand why
they require a high processor and more
memory  either.  The essential part of
a  slideshow  should  of  course be to
show excellent »CL9:pictures.»  I know there
aren't  many  real  pixel-art  masters
anymore,   but   even   those   bigger
pictures  done in photoshop or scanned
shouldn't  require  a better processor
than 68020.  I guess the creators want
to  include  lots  of  fancy  routines
also, so that the slideshow looks more
impressive  and take the pressure away
from   the  graphicians?   Well,  it's
possible   to   make   quite  ALOT  of
impressive routines on an A1200.  It's
not   a  demo  you're  making  anyway.
Instead  of  making real fast routines
by  cheating  (lots  of  memory etc.),
it's  actually  possible  to  »CL9:optimize»
your  code.   This  is also the reason
why  the  amiga  demos  were  so  much
better  than  the PC demos in the past
while  the  PC had lots of more memory
and  more  processor  power.   Another
thing was of course a better design...
and better graphics in generall.  Gods
released  the  slideshow  Divine  some
months  ago.  It didn't have any fancy
in-between-effects  and  no  photoshop
pictures,  just  the old style low-res
pics.   It's possible to still use the
old  pixel art and even make it run on
a  standard A1200!  It's the same with
musicdisks.   The essential part is of
course  the »CL9:modules.»  Certainly a nice
design  can't hurt, but it should work
on most amigas anyway.

Something  entirely  different  is  of
course the demos.  These days they got
to  be  pretty  huge to compete.  They
usually  include  many  modules,  much
graphics  and  3d  art  and  of course
quite   many   effects.    It's   very
convinient  to  have a great processor
like the 060 and a real high number of
memory.  Then it's much easier to make
fast  and stunning routines.  But it's
of  course »CL9:possible» to make quite good
demos  just  using  the old technology
too.   It's  the »CL9:overall concept» which
impress  the  sceners;  design,  ideas
etc.  When we think of the great demos
made  in  the  past,  like  Hardwired,
Substance,  Odyssey etc, why shouldn't
we  even  make more demos on the A500?
And   just   think   of   the  endless
opportunities  with  a standard A1200!
In any case, the »CL9:latest demos» are just
great.   I  hope  to  see many more of
them in the future.


     »PIC:Budgie-euro2.iff»













»CL9:KEEP THE SCENE ALIVE AND KICKING! 