»CL9:»SML:---------------------------------------
»CL8:»BIG:Devotion #1 and EC #1 (PC) Review
»CL9:»SML:---------------------------------------

           »CL4:by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:Yes, the content of most mags seem to
be writing about other mags, there's 
seldomly enough other mags released 
to be really diverse about it, but
this time, I can actually do a diskmag
review article, where I review more
than one other diskmag out since the
last EC, isn't that something? Well
the EC on PC will only get reviewed
this issue and likely never again, 
because it is a new mag, having some 
affiliation (in name, if nothing else) 
with our own EC, so I thought it might 
be fun for you to check out a review 
of it. The real interesting thing in 
this article though, is the new Amiga 
diskmag Devotion ofcourse. Well, once 
upon a time (blabla) new diskmags were
nothing special, but nowadays they
deserve special mention, no matter
whether they are good or bad, since
there's so few of them. Is Devotion
issue 1 good or bad then? Read on and
find out..

»CL8:Devotion #1
»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:After 2 years of delay, Darkus finally
managed to do it and release his long
promised and planned mag. This is 
definately a very interesting first
release, and I will be going over it
in details right now. 

The title picture was done by Antony 
and looks nice, as does the various
gfx in the mag, I also like the panels
for the mag. Adam of DCS did it and
the fonts and background pictures,
very good work! Optic of Talent did
the cliparts, which are ok, but
there are not many of them to go
around. In regards to gfx, Devotion
has nothing I can complain about,
except for a small amount of clipart,
otherwise it is very good and welldone
in this department. 

As for music, I can't say anything,
due to the simple fact that my Paula
is dead and gone in regards to
soundoutput (anyone wanna' donate an
A4k motherboard? Please? Pretty
please?). Ok, I can say that
Reed/Damage, Tecon/PlanetJazz and
Teis/Spaceballs did the 3 modules, and
besides, you ought to check out the
mag yourself, so you can also check
out the music then, heh.

Code wise, the mag runs very well for
a modern mag, it is coded using RTG,
which means it runs both on AGA and
graphicscards, which again means that
e.g. A2000 owners can view the mag. I
tested it with both AGA and on my EGS
gfxcard with CGX), and there were no
problems at all, it worked like a
charm, although it was annoying that I
for some reason had to assign progdir:
to the DVN directory, hrmm? Otherwise,
the mag is multitasking and quite
systemfriendly, I have not succeeded
in crashing it yet. As for the in-mag
features, it has everything you'd come
to expect, that is, fading text,
multicolour fonts, and generally the 
mag  looks and feels like ROM and
derivaties, that is, a slider in the
bottom panel showing you how long the
article is, and moving as you change
page, there are animated buttons and
musicindex, but you can't switch pages
by moving the mouse close to the end
of the screen, a feature which mags
in the ROM design often have (but I
don't mind the lack of it, it gets
annoying when the page suddenly
switches because you unintentionally
moved your mouse, etc.). Overall, the
code works well and feels slick, but
there's not many visible features in
the code, apart from the normal ones
in mags. Makke's article in the mag
about diskmags all looking alike
springs to mind (yep, the EC is no
exception, but I'm not reviewing our
own mag here, hehe). 

And now for the most important aspect
of Devotion 1, the articles ofcourse.
Well, well, it was extremely nice to
see a mag with a solid amount of 
articles again, it feels like ages
since the last (ST14 had many
articles, but those PC scene articles
don't count in my view). So, a lot of
Amiga specific and relevant articles,
very good going! Not counting adverts,
news, charts and the editorial
section, there are 46 articles
included. Does that sound like many?
Well, it IS, especially in this day
and age, so in regards to content,
Devotion #1 has a respectable amount
of it. Quantity is one thing however,
and quality another, so how does the
mag score in quality of articles? The
answer is that it scores very good!
Overall, I have only praise for the
articles, most were interesting and
well laid out. There were some
spelling and grammatical errors along
the way, but most articles contain a
more than passable english and are
quite easy to read. Well, and on top
of that, they are, as I have already
stated, interesting. I especially feel
I have to praise the article newcomer
Makke, for writing some very
interesting articles that I feel
myself agreeing completely with, I
hope Makke is one of the new stars of
the Amiga editor scene. Ofcourse,
there are other writers deserving of
mention, the interviews of Teis are
fresh and not in the normal,
semi-boring style, the articles of 
Wade are good as always, Mr.Tickle's 
one article is very good, the article
about re-using PC articles in Amiga
mags by Darkus is an interesting (if
unsettling, since most seem to think
it is ok) read, and so on. I can only
recommend Devotion as a sort of must
read, especially in these dry times.

If I have to be negative about
something regarding mag content (and I
have to be negative, otherwise I would
sound biased, hehe), I have to say
that the news and adverts section is
really poor, meaning that it is very,
very small, and by just putting a
modicum of effort into it, those
section could have been much bigger
(news from 8! groups and adverts from
5!! people?). That is disappointing,
but nothing that can't be easily
fixed in the next issue, and it does
not really detract much from the 
overall impression of the mag.

Devotion also features a chart. With
28 voters, they didn't get much
support for this issue, but since it 
is a chart about various diskmag 
issues (editors and diskmags), it 
does not need that much support I
think, and it also does not try to
compete with the bigger charts, so all
in all I hope the chartsection will 
continue and that people support it,
as it is another flavour that spices 
up Devotion. 

So, conclusion coming up.. Or do I
really have to spell it out for you
now? Devotion #1 is a very good first
issue, definately one of the best
newcomer mags I have seen the last few
years, and the future looks very
promising for it if they can keep it
up. They surely have my continued
support for the mag, Devotion is a
quality mag, with good, scenish
content, although this issue has a lot
of articles about diskmags, it still
manages to be interesting. Maybe it is
less interesting for people not
wanting to read 20 (or more) articles
about diskmags, but regardless of
that, the content is good and I hope
that Devotion will exist for a long
time, to compete with the EC and Disc,
hehe. 




   »PIC:Budgie-euro3.iff»













»CL8:Eurochart #1 (PC)
»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL0:Well, this is a special one. It is
online only, and you can find it at
»CL7:www.eurochart.org». You can't view the
intro nor hear the music nor see the
actual charts on an Amiga, so I had to 
do the review on a PC. You can 
however, read the articles on your
Amiga browser. 

The PC EC has been in the making
for some time, and they really hope to
be able to do something for the PC
scene it seems. The group behind it is
Talent, or more accurately, Boo and
Optic of Talent as the maineditors and
webdesigners. Facet of good old 
Anarchy (and Lemon. ofcourse) made a
Flash intro for the mag. The intro
is nothing special, but nice enough,
and in the typical diskmag intro
style, although a bit short and
without music. The magtune is a nice
and relaxing module by Chromag, very
maglike and well fitting. As for
graphics, there is one logo and some
cliparts, nothing much, but the
cliparts are nicely done, also by the
maineditors. As for coeditors, they
are Adok from the Hugi staff, and 
Dr. Outtasight from the old Crusaders. 

As you might guess, there's not really
much support to be found in this first
issue. While it was quite fun seeing
the old Ken stories published in the
early Amiga EC's by Dr. Outtasight
retyped in this issue, it is 3
articles ripped, and it remains to be
seen whether the good old Doctor will
actually type some new Ken stories.
Apart from that, there are two other
article writers listed, 4t Thieves and
Dr. Awesome, although the latter's
'support' just seems to consist of
what he writes on his mailing list to
fans (I know, since I'm on that list,
heh). So, as expected, the article
content of the chat is pretty poor,
but that is normal with a first issue
ofcourse. There are some 'where have
the legends gone?' interviews, but
that didn't interest me that much.
Best thing about the articles were
the Ken stories, but I read them in..
What.. 89-90?, so they were somewhat
unoriginal ofcourse. Still, newer
sceners will likely enjoy them,
they're classics! Hrmm yes, they try
to start the Scene Oscars thing in
that EC too, hrmmff, they seem to rip
ideas and articles from everywhere. As 
you might know, Scene Oscars were to 
be in Generation, and we even managed 
to collect support for it (I was to 
have my own Oscar, the world is not 
fair, hehe), but then Generation died, 
and the idea with it, or so we 
thought. 

Ok, as for the actual chart, there's
not much to say, they managed to get
60 voters for the first issue, and I
don't know whether that is much or
not, but since the PC scene is likely
much bigger than the Amiga scene, it
strikes me as odd that they get even 
fewer votes than we do. Still, it is
the first issue, and as such, a lack
of support is normal enough. 

In the (small) news section, there's 
one weird piece of misinformation,
saying that the legendary diskmag DISC
will be back (true) as a PC mag
(false!). I don't know how that rumour
got spread, but it is of course not
correct, DISC will be an Amiga mag
only, as it was when it first started. 

What bothers me about the PC EC, and 
what makes me somewhat biased in this
review, is that we were never asked or
told about this PC EC project, we had
to discover it for ourselves, that
they were doing it. Now, I know that
there's no such thing as patents in
the scene, and that everybody can do
as they please, but I thought there

was still some sort of moral code, by
which some people acted, so I was
irritated at seeing this PC EC appear,
without us being told about it, or
asked whether it was ok or not (we
would of course have given our
permission for it, but it is pretty
standard fare to ask).
       »PIC:Darklight.+EC_07.iff»













So, I'm biased, and it doesn't get
better because of the fact that I
dislike everything PC'ish (except
games, hehe) AND online mags to boot.
Still, apart from the facts that they
did not ask us for permission to
start the EC on PC, that some articles
are ripped and that it has poor
support, my conclusion is that it has
potential, and that issue 1 was ok
really, if you are a PC scener you
should probably support it.
Of course it does not hold much
interest for non-PC sceners, but that
is understandable enough.  