»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
 »CL9:»BIG:     IRIS - Behind the Curtain!!
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Zerox/Gods


»CL0:IRIS  is  one  of the »CL9:oldest»: groups at
the  amiga  scene  today, and it seems
like  most sceners also think it's one
of  the  most  »CL9:friendly» groups around.
Many members of IRIS always show up at
the  various computer events, like The
Party,  Symp-Mekka  and  other big and
small  events.  They always seem to be
so friendly.  But now I'll tell you an
entirely  different  story  -  a story
which  is  totally  unknown  for  most
sceners.  It's time to reveal the »CL9:dark»
secrets of this crew.
Many  sceners  do believe IRIS members
are  totally  dedicated  to the amiga,
and  every year they arrange the Scene
Meeting.  A meeting which are only for
pure  amiga freaks.  »CL9:IRIS» claim in the
invitation that all »CL9:PC» sceners will be
thrown  out  - just to show us all how
much  they dislike the PC and love the
amiga.   Well,  when they think nobody
else  are looking, a totally different
side  of »CL9:IRIS is revealed.»  They can't
wait before they throw themselves over
their  PCs.   They  forget  all  about
their socalled beloved amigas and just
play PC games days in a row.  There is
of  course also a »CL9:hidden agenda» behind
the   Scene  Meeting.   Every  year  a
certain amount of sceners attend.  But
also  every year less sceners do come,
because  after  each SM there are less
sceners.   The  IRIS members just hand
over  free  beers  to their victims at
the  Scene Meeting so they can't offer
so  much  resistance.   Then they just
take  them  down  in  the  cellar of a
neighbour   building  and  abuse  them
there.   After  the Scene Meeting they
have  just  disappeared,  and  none of
their  contacts  will  ever  hear from
them  again.   By the way, what do you
assosiate  with SM?  A small advice to
sceners  that  might consider to visit
the »CL9:Scene Meeting» next year.  When you
witness  the  obscure ritual with IRIS
members headbanging to old demos, then
it's  time  to  get  the  hell  out of
there.   It's  right before they start
taking prisoners...


IRIS  also  have  other  »CL9:dark rituals.»
When  entering  the  group the sceners
get  brainwashed.   IRIS  try to break
them  down,  just to build the members
in  their  own  image.  Their own will
power  will  disappear.   And  at  the
first  time when you meet all the IRIS
members,  one  especially nasty ritual
will  take  place.  The new member has
to  sleep  with  the »CL9:evil organizer» of
the madness...  DARKhawk.  This summer
it happened to Cupid...

In  most  groups you don't have to pay
just  to  be  a  member,  but  in IRIS
that's  different.  Officially you pay
your   part   to   finance   the  IRIS
homepage,  but of course all the money
go to »CL9:Darkhawk.»

       »PIC:Darklight.+EC_07.iff»









In  IRIS there is also a huge »CL9:drinking»
»CL9:pressure»  -  again  just to break down
the   willpower.    And  members  that
either  won't  drink, or tell everyone
they  are  drunk  even days after they
had their last beer (to avoid drinking
more),  get  kicked  out of the group.
Lately  that  happened to the old IRIS
member  Mj.   Officially he was kicked
due to inactivity...
It's  not  easy  »CL9:leaving IRIS.»  If you
try  to  leave  for another group, you
will  certainly  not  succeed.  If you
leave  the scene, you have a chance of
surviving  but  you  will be »CL9:tormented»
the  rest  of  your life...  just like
the coder Hastur.
There  are  not  many mags left in the
amiga  scene  these  days, but somehow
you  find  articles from the organizer
of  IRIS  in all of them.  It can't be
any secret anymore that IRIS fight for
»CL9:worlddomination.»   At  first  they are
just  friendly  and  support all mags,
but  soon  they start to take over.  I
suspect  that  IRIS  will have all the
mags  left  within  a  year  to spread
their  propaganda.   The »CL9:EuroChart» was
just  the  beginning...   so watch out
editors.
Well,  I won't dare to    »PIC:Kempy.freedom-hi.end»
come  close   to  IRIS 
members  anymore after
I nearly didn't manage
to  escape  after  the
Scene   Meeting   this
year,  so  I  won't be
coming next year.














         Soon  there  will be created
         a »CL9:hotline» for IRIS victims,
         but beware... there might be
         a  party  close to  you soon
         with lots  of IRISers  and a
         hotline won't help you  much
         then.      But  then  again,
         perhaps   it   is   time  to
         surrender.
         The »CL9:darkmen»:, often refered
         to as IRIS members, will get
         you sooner or later anyway..

         Sleep well.


        ©"There's a lunatic among us"
                        - foundation. 