»CL8:--------------------------------------
              »CL9:»BIG:Editorial
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:   By Curt Cool, Cytron and Darkhawk

»CL0:Welcome to »CL1:The Official Eurochart» issue
»CL1:41». This should have been the Summer
issue, but it seems that it has now
become the Autumn issue instead. This
delay is caused by a lack of votes and
nothing else. So we might as well put
it this way: This delay was caused by
the ones who didn't take the few
minutes it takes to vote. Oh, what a
nasty way to put things? That's just
the way we are!



On a lighter note, we hope you have
enjoyed your summer as much as we have,
having holidays, drinking, travelling,
.. all that! And hopefully, you are
all back to do some serious scening
after this traditional summer slump,
just like we are...»CL7:           -CC

»CL2:Thank you very much Curt. For
everything! And good luck with your
life. See you around!

Some things have happened in the scene 
since the last EC ofcourse, there have
been summer parties for instance, like
the »CL1:Euskal» party in »CL1:Spain» and the
»CL1:Scene Meeting» in »CL1:Denmark». What most
people look forward to, are the
releases on the biggest summerparty,
namely the »CL1:Assembly», and although they
did what no one has done before, that
is, made the Amiga/PC compete in the
same intro and demo compo, there have
been some nice releases from that
party indeed, which you should check
for yourself. 

On the »CL1:diskmag» scene, something
positive has happened; we have a
new competitor (is that positive for
us?), and a worthy one at that.
Devotion #1 was finally released this
August, and you can read the review
about it in this mag, to check out
whether »CL1:Devotion» is worth your time or
not. However, all Amiga mags should be
worth your time, seeing as there are
so few left, hrmm.. Still, we'd like
to send out respect to Darkus and the
DVN team for bringing out a new,
quality diskmag! We hope it will
continue to get released steadily for
a long, long time.        »CL7:      -DH

»CL3:"The opinion stated here are mine, and
mine alone. But they should be yours
too - cause they are RIGHT!."»

One of my friends has this funny sig
in his email. For some reason I came
to think of it ever so often when
colouring/cliparting all the articles
for this fresh issue of The Official
Eurochart. The debate is going crazy.
And Poland is the major subject.
Personally, I prefer to be a bit
neutral on the Poland matter -
especially since I now live only 80 km
from Poland (and you never know what
those crazy Poles might do to you if
you disagree with them :-)), but in
this edition of our fine mag, you
certainly find strong opinions for and
against the Poland Rulz subject!

Once upon a time - in May to be more
specific - a little letter was in my
A23400 mailbox at CERN. My first
swapper letter for two years. Und zwar
from a German guy. Along with his vote
(YES! - you can actually VOTE in thie
mag!) he sent a long, old article
about the DOS that was actually meant
to be included with Amiga. Enjoy that.
Also, enjoy the poems, the
advertisements, the partyreports (even
one from TP9 - a bit late, but what!),
party results, and various articles.
Welcome aboard!                   »CL7:-CTN

And now, enough of other people's
diskmags, now go and enjoy this issue
of the EuroChart, we have some tricks
and treats for you!