»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
            »CL8:»BIG:Another C64?
»SML:           (another view on
   the new hardware/Poland debate)
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

             »CL4:by Curt Cool

»CL7:"Why do you want the Amiga to become
another C64?"
»CL0:This is question that Jazzcat/Pic
Saint Loup is asking to Darkhawk's
article "Poland Suxx" in his "Viagra"
article in this issue of The Official
Eurochart. Thinking things through, I
find this question rather silly: The
Amiga IS, to most sceners, and to
almost all ordinary computer (=pc)
users, already another C64!

Let us have a look on the parallels
between these two ageing platforms:
When people talk about old computer
games in the general public (and
this doesn't happen too seldom at
all), they often mention C64 and Amiga
games, not really remembering which
game that belongs where.

Most Amiga and C64 sceners has a PC
standing next to their scene
machine, and perhaps a PlayStation as
well. It is possible to get free
pirated programs and games from one's
friends for all the four mentioned
platforms (Amiga, C64, PC &
PlayStation) which seems to a pretty
important factor for all sceners, past
present and future.

»CL8:In fact, the only difference is that
there are quite a few people who uses
their Amiga for tasks that the C64
cannot do - primarily internet and
wordprocessing - a task which the
Amiga can easily do rather when
equipped properly - and thus
expensively too.

Anyway, this is the only thing that
truely sets the C64 and the Amiga
apart, looking past their vast
technical differences, so why would
someone want to get rid of this
structural difference? Surely it must
be a good thing for the Amiga scene
that there is still hardware
development and sales going on?



        »PIC:Darklight.+EC_03.iff»









Yes and no! The hardware development
going on makes the Amiga a commercial
platform which means that professional
software development is still going
on, rather than public domain, and it
means that there are a few hardware
companies left as well. This is surely
good for the Amiga as a platform, but
is it good for the scene?
»CL0:Not necessarily. As I wrote in my
article »CL1:"The Generation Gap"» also
published in this issue of The
Official Eurochart, the ongoing
development and sales of hardware
paradoxically creates a gap in the
scene, because you can't make people
upgrade if they don't want to, and you
can't make others stop upgrading if
they want to do so. This gap means
that we actually are unable to see
eachothers demos, at least to the full
extend: It is impossible to watch PPC
demos on 680x0 machines, and demos
made on 060 runs crappily on 030 and
040 if at all, and demos made on 030
sometimes runs crappily on 040 and 060
because of the cache differences.
And to put this simply, it puts
people off - because that these
differences makes it almost impossible
to run older demos on 060 and PPC
machines, and new demos on 020 and 030
machines. And as we can see, it is
mostly the coders who own the fast
machines whereas most of the
graphicians and musicians own slow
machines like 030. And this is the
reason why the charts, both in the
Eurochart and Showtime show that it is
usually the productions which are able
to run on a slow machine that get the
highest chart positions. This is also
the reason why I predict that the
Assembly 64k winner by Exploder will
throw Gift by Potion off the 1st spot
of the 40/64k chart in the next issue
of the Eurochart since this release
works on all Amiga configurations with
16Mb of mem - and works amazingly
well - instead of just 030/FPU -> 060,
where you actually need a 060 to see
it run smoothly.
Yes, this puts people off and is, in
the end, a major reason why some
people leave the scene and others stay
- it's a question of how much money
people want to invest in their scene
machine. So, as I have written before,
it would always be better if everyone
had the precisely same machine - after
all, this process works both ways, and
so, we actuallt aren't able to watch
eachothers demos.

(and personally, I much prefer the
coder who fucks the system and makes
impressive things on 030, but then the
demo probably won't work on a
060/CGFX/... system...)
»CL0:I still think that it's because of a
weak attitude that coders switch to
060 and PPC - surely it's easier to
make impressive effects on those
machines, but when the impressive
effects are usually just bigger and
bigger vector worlds, or just old
effects which are perhaps in a bit
more colours, and in a slightly higher
resolution, it is not really an
amazing gain for the demo or intro
itself. And yes, I believe that the
latter is actually the case for most
demos, certainly including a lot of
Polish ones - just have a look at some
of the older stuff from TBL, Essence,
Artwork and some others, and you will
most probably see what I mean.


»CL8:Returning to the Poland discussion,
what did Poland contribute? I am sure
that most people will agree that the
most innovative design in Amiga demos
today come from two-three groups: DCS,
Ozone and maybe Spaceballs (at least I
liked the design in the latest EC
intro). Still, I cannot be sure about
this since none of the Polish releases
>from the Assembly work on my crappy
non-FPU machine - but still, I will
watch them sometime, either when I get
a better accelerator myself, or at
someone with a better machine's place
and decide.





So, what Poland does have is some
really talented individuals, but in
my humble opinion, the Polish scene
still need to prove that they are able
to work together in order to provide
us with a production which really
features the design and general
wellworkedthrough-ness that it takes
to stay at the top of the charts for a
long time... Yes, Gift was amazing,
and is surely a step in the right
direction, but it seemed more like a
try at proving to the PC scene that
there was still life in the Amiga, on
the premises of the PC scene and the
design that is often lacking from its
productions, rather than trying to
prove that the Polish scene can do
some amazing things on the premises of
todays Amiga scene - basically, a demo
should work very well on all Amiga
platforms, and as Nerve Axis, and
later Exploder's Push Entertainments'
has proven, it can be done.


     »PIC:Encore»













»CL0:I can and will not answer whether
there are too many Polish voters on
the charts - surely the editor and
diskmagazine chart proves some things,
but I believe that Wade is not quite
right in his way of seeing what it
proves: I think that the reason why
Polish editors and diskmags have been
ranked so high in the latest 5-6
issues of the Eurochart is simply that
most Polish people aren't too good at
English, and so they have a hard time
reading the magazines in English. And
of course, it also proves that there
are very few diskmagazines and very
few active writers left on the Western
part of the scene - and though Eastern
Europe is known for many good things,
general knowledge of the English
language is not one of them. So I
»CL0:definitely disagree with the idea that
Polish people are promoting and voting
for themselves all the time - this is
simply not true - this is an example
>from an email I received from Popcorn/
Appendix:

»CL4:"Hi Curt! - i wanted to say
something about Poles. I live in
Poland and I know these people well.
I think Poles are not bad, self-
fascinated people.
There are different kinds of people in
Poland - just like any other
countries. One think that Poland
rocks, others don't. I think that the
Polish scene does not rule.
Our coders are really good, but Polish
demos have no design!. Polish demos
are BORING. Today demos are not much
better than the times when Sanity
released ARTE and Kefrens did Desert
Dream.

About Hardware. I think we should use
PPC & GFX boards if we have them. If
we will be support AMIGA, AMIGA will
support US.

PC isn't good but cheap.

AAAAMMMMIIIIGGGAAA
RRRRUUULLLEEEZZZZ!!!!!"







»CL0:Also, if we have a look at the other
charts, it doesn't seem as if they are
dominated by Polish people so I think
that Wade is wrong on this point, and
so I believe that Magic is partly wrong
in his suggestions for chart changes.

Finally returning to the article of
the quote which spawned this article,
I don't think that Western article
writers say "Amiga is dead - PC
rules." I think that Western article
writers try to be realistic and say
"Amiga is dead - Amiga rules! - but it
seems that we might need a PC for
playing games as well". It seems to me
that the Polish article writers
generally have better-equipped Amigas
than their Western European collegues,
but this does not necessarily mean
that this is the trend that covers the
entire Polish scene - or in other
words, I believe that many, many
Polish Amiga sceners own pcs as well.
Therefore I do not see the reason to
divide the scene the way it is - it
just doesn't help anything except
promoting one part of the scene in
favour of another - or in other words,
the gap is not one of nations, but one
of scener's opinions about upgrading
and about the way things should be.

»CL7:And yes, I think that everyone on the
scene are doing what they should to
contribute to the scene - it is, as
most sceners know, almost impossible
to force people into making something
for the scene - people have to have
the motivation, and that motivation
does not necessarily come from faith
in the Amiga - it might as well come
>from faith in the idea of a scene
itself, regardless of platform, and
mostly from an actual love of doing
something creative with computers, and
with one's life as a whole. I don't
think that any Western or Eastern
European sceners feel threatened by
the amount of productions made by a
particular geographically separated
part of the scene - and I don't think
that the scene, considering the size
it currently has - can afford this
opinion. This is not a question of
threat, it is a question of being able
to understand what other people with
the same interest as oneself writes,
it is a question of quality over
quantity, etc. etc.
»CL0:As for the question of 4channel
versus mchannel modules, well, I still
think that AHI sucks - it's buggy and
I still haven't made it work on my
machine - perhaps I should re-install?
- and I'm not really sure that it is
actually necessary for a diskmag - at
least it's the articles that counts
the most here, so I don't see that 4
channels are a problem, as long as
there are musicians willing to compose
in 4 channels. As a choice between XM
and DBM, well, if DBM did not require
AHI, I'm sure that much more people
would use it.

»CL0:And lastly, Jazzcat talks about
"efficiency" regarding demo making.
If we think that demos are pieces of
art, it is not exactly a question of
quantity, is it - no! I would rather
have one good demo that I will
remember for a long time than 10
mediocre ones which I will just forget
seconds after having finished
watching.
