»CL7:"Western sceners are sometimes
 behaving just like impotents. They
 don't consider themselves to be able
 to keep up their high standards
 anymore because the Amiga is less
 important to them and stuff. To put
 it another way - they can't make love
 to their woman (Amiga) anymore, but
 they are jealeous that someone
 (Poles) is still able to do it"

»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
         »CL8:»BIG:Viagra for the Scene
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

      »CL4:by JazzCat/Pic Saint Loup

»CL0:That's my reply to a reply to my "On
West without Changes" article from
Eurochart #40.

The author says that sceners need
their Amigas to depack lha's and
showing jpgs and they are not
interested in PPC at all. I can't say
if that is true, but tell me: why do
those jpg and lha freaks buy PCs?
Perhaps to depack and display the
files even faster, eh?

Look at Relic, Rise or Rain, Concrete.
Those productions wouldn't ever exist,
if nothing faster than a 020/14mhz
existed. God only knows how good
demos, that require a 040/060 or a
PPC, the future will bring us. For
example, some great Polish coders -
Zig/Floppy, Mavey/Potion or Klod/Nah
Kolor have bought a PPC recently. The
group 'Lamers' made a brilliant PPC
demo called "Sayontsheck" a few months
ago, Mankind released an oustanding,
top class PPC demo called "Death
Trial" last time. Who will be next?

Amiga can be and even should be a
machine for work, but a typical
western scener has used his A1230/50
(ofcourse with no fpu) and PAL monitor
since 1995, and he will certainly use
such equippment until death.

And C64. You talk about C64... But
that's really a bad example to use.
C64'ers use the same hardware still,
only because they have no choice. Do
you really think, that if there were
some turboboards avaiable for the C64
they wouldn't buy it?! C64 is dead,
when it comes to the hardware. We are
not, yet.

Why do you want Amiga to become
another c64?

»CL8:Cool Quality?
»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:You say Poles produce a lot of average
stuff, too. I must admit solemnly,
that you're absolutely right. I'm not
so utterly conceited to believe that
we make only high-quality productions.
That would be megalomania. But the
difference between you, western
sceners, and us is simple: we produce,
while you only talk. If someone can't
handle the fact that someone else is
well liked for his work I advise him
to go ahead and do something better.
Listen to western article writers -
Amiga is dead, they say. PC rules,
they say. Is the Amiga scene worth our
hard work, they ask. But what did they
do to change it? The answer is:
nothing. And the problem is that we
all know how bad that is. Talking
won't help us. You should better shut
up and start creating, instead of
talking.

You say about the West: "we're the
ones with cool quality productions".
Yes, there are some excellent western
productions among the newest stuff,
just to mention the ones from
Ephidrena (hey boys, you really have
flair for design! What sort of drug do
you smoke?! :-)), DCS, Loonies, Skarla
or The Black Lotus, but the rest of
your "cool productions" are really
nothing special at all.

And techno? Don't say only Poles like
techno. Techno-styled music plays in
almost every demo. Music competitions
are dominated by techno-related tracks
and it seems like 75% of the scene
today simply loves it. Go and kill
them, then.

I was trying to understand you,
Darkhawk, and I have probably
succeeded.

Your problem is that you can't accept
the fact, that the West won't rule the
Amiga scene anymore. Yep, those were
the days, when groups like Sanity,
Anarchy or Silents kicked ass. We all
remember it and pay a huge respect to
those people, believe me. But the
truth is that we, Poles, not you, are
pushing the scene up now. Just look at
TP9 for example. 7 demos. Seven! The
whole western Europe was only able to
make 7 demos. And certainly some of
them were "cool quality productions",
but only some... And look at some
Polish party now. 7-8 demos are an
average number of contributions.
What's up with you, guys?! You don't
have to buy ppc, but why do you stop
doing demos, people?! And zines... How
many Western zines are coming out on a
regular basis? Eurochart and ShowTime.
Yes, we have heard about some signs of
life from Trashcan, X-Files and
ScenePress recently, but it seems that
wasn't anything serious. So, we have
EC and ST. 2 mags. Two!

To be honest, both are good ones but
how long they will appear yet? That
would be a pretty heart-stopping
moment hearing that one of them died.
Here in Poland there is... ehm, try to
guess! About 10. I only mean those
that come out on a regular basis. And
a little note to Ghandy: please don't
destroy ShowTime's image publishing
those PC articles. Do you really think
it's impossible to fill the mag out
only with Amiga scener's texts? In
last issue of Taboo (a Polish zine) we
had over 140 articles and most of them
were scene-related topics. Maybe it's
because Poland sucks...



»CL8:Victims of 4-Channels
»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL0:And the multichannel compos. Do you
really don't understand what I'm
talking about? I don't say, there are
no multichannel compos, only that
there are no *.DBM format allowed in
compos. Actually, there wasn't *.DBM
until TP9 (but I wrote my text few
months before the party). I'm really
fed up with all those stupid answers
like: "No, you can't compete with a
*.DBM module". Why, the hell, I ask?
Why do you discriminate DBPro? Only
because it's Polish?

Some "wise" men would say that I can
simply convert my module to *.XM, for
example. Sure, that's a real true
point, but: 1) there are huge
differences between DBPro and
FastTracker II, and to convert the
module means losing many things (ask
some musician), 2) *.DBM is an
original Amiga format and *.XM is not,
so why the hell should we talk another
language, when we have our own, which
is even better?

The next thing is the lack of
multichannel mods in your mags. We
both agree, that a standard scene
config is at least o3o-o4o at the
moment, so what is the point in using
silly 4-channel modules?! We in Poland
have multichannel music in almost
every mag and people accept it (maybe
because they have no choice ;)). If
the page-scroll routine is neat enough
(I mean fast), there is no problem
with speed. And by the way... Could
anyone explain why most of western
mags doesn't support SVGA monitors (I
won't even mention gfx cards)? This is
the year 2000 and many people also use
their Amigas for work.

»CL0:A typical 4-channel mod compared to a
multichannel sounds just like shit!
Lousy samples, lack of space, no delay
or other DSP effects gives damn
sythetic and unreal atmosphere as a
result. It was alright in 1990, but
not 10 years after. Of course, the
thing we all like about doing computer
music is that it's like playing an
instrument, but all of us are
extremely bored with listening to the
same 4-channel 8-bit music from 1985
and on. You simply CAN'T play a good
solo using 1 channel! Every musician
will tell you that. Hey Frank
(Curtcool), am I not right? :-D It
doesn't matter much when it comes to a
techno music, but other styles need
more tracks to sound decent.

  »PIC:Kempy.person_end_hires»












As I said, we all pay a great respect
to our western predecessors, who
ruled, when we were just at start. But
it's over now.

»CL8:Western sceners are behaving sometimes
just like impotent people. They don't
consider themselves to be able to keep
up their high standards anymore
because the Amiga is less important to
them and stuff. To put it another way
- they can't make love to their woman
(Amiga) anymore, but they are jealeous
that someone (Poles) is still able to
do it.

»CL0:And what's the reason of our
efficiency? Our faith in the Amiga
(the Thing you have lost month ago).
This is our viagra! :-D 