»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
    »CL9:»BIG: S.M. 2000 PARTY-REPORT!
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Zerox/Gods

»CL0:After  a  night with not much sleep, I
began  preparing  to the »CL9:Scene Meeting»
2000 in Odense/Denmark.  My train from
Kristiansand  to  Stavanger  didn't go
before  19.36 at the evening, but many
things  had to be taken care of.  Just
a  few  days before I had arrived home
from  another  trip,  so  I  was still
tired  and  hadn't had any time at all
to prepare myself for the SM 2k.

Some  things  needed  to be taken care
of.   First  of  all,  I  needed  some
Danish  money.   And as I was going to
stay  at  »CL9:Darkhawks»  place  after  the
party  this  year  too,  I  thought  I
should get him a small gift.  But that
was  not  that  easy.   What to give a
scener?   A  tribute article?  A demo?
A   game?    Or   should  I  give  him
something I knew he was interested in?
A  Sci-fi  book?   A fantasy book?  Or
perhaps   some  traditional  norwegian
sovenirs?   Nah.   Time went by, and I
had  to  pack.  Naturally I packed the
necessary  things  in  a bag; like the
»CL9:A1200»,  some  additional  disks and of
course  some  clothes.   I was more or
less ready to go.  I needed someone to
give   me   a   ride   down   to   the
trainstation  or  get  a taxi.  In any
case,  I managed to reach my train and
arrived  in Kristiansand around 22.30.
It  was  hours until the ferry towards
Denmark  should  depart.   I  hate  to
wait.   It  was  some boring hours.  I
checked  in and just sat there waiting
anyway.   However,  the  other  people
beside  me  were  also  waiting.  They
really   irritated   me.    All  those
screaming  children  and  parents that
didn't  care.   After  this  period of
hell,  it was time to enter the ferry.
The   watch  showed  we  were  getting
closer  to  01.00.   It  was of course
chaos.   I found a secure place for my
bag and kept the key.  Then I tried to
find  a place to eat something.  After
a  hard  struggle,  I finally got some
food.  It was expensive of course, but
not far as expensive as the ticket for
the  ferry.   440  Nok.   I think I've
been  cheated.  Nevertheless, I wasn't
that  hungy  anymore and instead tried
to  find my sleeping-chair which I had
reserved.   After  a while I found it,
and  tried  to relax a bit.  It didn't
last   many   minutes   before  I  was
freezing.     It's    quite   strange,
whatever   the  temperature  might  be
outside,  it's  always cold inside the
ferry.  In any case, I had to get some
more  clothes  in my bag.  Of course I
had  to  pay  again  to close the damn
closet.   More time went by and I once
again was laying in my sleeping-chair.
It  was impossible to sleep.  Too many
persons  walking  around all the time.
In  any  case,  the  boat  was getting
closer to Denmark.

Chaos  again!  Everyone were trying to
be  the  first  in  the  que  entering
Denmark.   Some  actually thought they
wouldn't  get  off  the  ferry if they
stood  last  in  the  que.  Anyway, we
entered  Hirtshals  6.30.   Now I just
had  to find the trainstation and take
that   private  train  from  Hirtshals
until  the public would take over.  It
was not that easy.  I had to wait some
more.   Anyway,  I  took  the  train a
small  distance  before  switching.  I
bought   the  ticket  towards  Odense.
Some hours later, I finally arrived at
the  trainstation.   After  some  more
walking  I tried to find bus nr.21.  I
waited  some  more  before it arrived.
Then  it  was towards the »CL9:party place.»
I  got  off the bus and walked towards
the  place.   Yes,  I  noticed the red
windows...  it just had to be "Huset".

Some  people  were  outside,  but most
people   were   inside.    Some   were
drinking  beers,  some were sitting in
front of their screens and others were
chatting.   All  in all I guess around
»CL9:40  sceners»  were  present.   The  bar
looked pretty cool by the way.

Oh  yes,  you might wondering how good
the productions were and how the party
was  in  general?  Well, it was pretty
ok.

»CL9:NO!!!»   Who  the  h...  cares about my
trip  from Stavanger to Odense and the
partyplace???   Or  other  »CL9:unimportant»
stuff   regarding  entirely  different
topics?   I'm  real  tired  of reading
party  report  which  could  have been
written  ages  before  the  party  was
held.    Describtions   of   the  trip
towards the party or the journey home.
Who  travelled together, what they eat
and  what they drank.  »CL9:It's boring!»  I
hope  these  reports  are  just  to be
found   in  mags  of  the  past.   The
party-reports  should instead be about
the  »CL9:groups» present, the »CL9:releases», the
»CL9:competitions»,  the  atmosphere  and of
course  if  the organizing was good or
not  (like power failures, no place to
sleep,  delays  and  more).   So  skip
reading  party-reports  beginning with
"I  travelled  from xxx 07.30 together
with  xxx  towards  xxx".  It's simply
too  boring and hasn't got anything to
do  with  a  »CL9:PARTY»-report!   To read a
real  party-report  you should read it
elsewhere in the »CL9:EuroChart» instead!!!

»CL9:Party on!»

