»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
              »CL8:»BIG:Goodbye...
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

            »CL4:from Curt Cool

»CL0:As I told you in issue 40 of The
Official Eurochart, this issue (which
means issue 41) would be the last
Eurochart ever with me as a part of the
main editing team.
But why am I quitting? I could of
course start making excuses like "I
need more time to study", "I want more
time with my girlfriend" (or for
sissies, "my girlfriend wants more time
with me") etc. etc.
Maybe this is a part of the truth, but
the reason I'm quitting can be found in
the term "over the hill". I have been
doing the Eurochart for more than four
years, beginning during summer 1996,
where Static Bytes agreed to let us
take over. In December 1996, Depth
released their first Eurochart issue,
issue #28, and since then, things have
been going on with about 4 issues/year,
which seem to be pretty suitable
considering the size of todays scene.
As you might expect, a lot of work has
been connected to the actual finished
release - I can't count how many times
Cytron and I have been working hard,
day and night at some party in order
to finish before the party ended - not
to forget, a lot of responsibility -
the scene was and is expecting another
issue of The Official Eurochart, which
makes Eurochart-making a duty and a
responsibility. Or rather, it used to
be a joy to make the Eurochart, but
now, which is the end for me as a main
editor, it seems more like a duty,
since I have been doing the same jobs
a lot of times now (see the credits
section in the latest 10 issues or so
to find out which).

      »PIC:Darklight.+ec_07.iff»











»CL8:So basically, I find myself over the
hill now, and finished with my main
editing job. I will still be a part of
the Eurochart as a contributing editor,
and hopefully I will be able to
contribute to some other diskmagazines
as well with some articles when I come
up with interesting subjects to write
about. And I will of course keep doing
music and swap for a bit as well - so
it is not as if I am leaving the scene
or anything, and I promise that you
will be able to find me on IRC now and
then as well.








Apart from the scene, well, I have to
study, and hopefully I will be able to
work creatively with other medias as
well, acting in the students revue,
writing poems and shortstories
(novels some time?), singing in a band,
whatever. You can wish me the best of
luck, I sure need it...

I would like to thank everyone who
helped us during my four long years -
this means everyone who contributed in
any way - you are too many to mention
but you know who you are, and you
should know that both I and the scene
itself are greatful to you for making
The Official Eurochart possible.



»CL9:THANK YOU.

»CL0:Also thanks to everyone who ever
read and enjoyed my work - I sincerely
hope it was appreciated and that I will
be able to add a little to it in the
future - the work of a writer is
useless unless read...

»CL6:Digiternal regards

»CL4:Curt Cool/Depth

»CL1:23rd of August 2000 