»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »CL8:»BIG:The internet - a threat?
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

             »CL4:by Curt Cool

»CL0:What happens when people use the
internet? This is a discussion which
is intriguing the public (in general),
especially regarding chat and the
possibility of sitting at home in
front of your computer, ordering
everything from the net, not having
any social life at all.

This does not immediately seem like a
problem for the scene, yet the amount
of both Amiga and pc sceners seem to
be decreasing, at least it seems so
when I read some of the articles of pc
origin in the latest Showtime. Like
everything, there has to be a reason
why this is happening to our scenes.

This made me think about the origin of
our scene, the demoscene: The cracking
scene. It seems that there has to be a
cracking scene before people start to
make demos for a specific platform -
because that the typical scener is
usually young and more or less poor,
and thus needs free software -
something which is widely available
for both pc, Amiga, c64 and
PlayStation which, by all means, are
the main demo platforms of today.

»CL8:In the past, the cracked games and
programs were also a reason to
socialize, in order to copy and play
the latest games, perhaps drink a few
beers, perhaps talk about girls and
solve the world situation.



  »PIC:Kempy.person_end_hires»













This was the way that people met, this
was the way that someone had suddenly
got something called a demo (wow!),
and this was the way people got past
the time where X-Copy or White
Lightning (old Amiga diskcopy
programs) were the only "serious"
programs they had ever seen. Perhaps
they found a tracker on some utility
disk, and perhaps there were a few
modules and sample included with it.
Perhaps there was an assembler course,
and gee, what's that? And perhaps they
got to know someone who actually knew
what this was all about, and maybe they
thought it was cool and wanted to see
for themselves. Indeed, this is the
way a scener is created.


Yet, today there is no need for such
troublesome trips on bicycle to ones
so-called friends, no reasom to visit
the local computer club in order to
copy, because we all have the net
where it is possible to find stuff via
search-engines, filesharing engines
like Napster and Gnutella, and oh joy,
we don't even have to talk to other
people in order to get these things.
This is also the case with new demos -
they are all thrown onto an ftp
server, where they are nice and easy
to find. Thus swapping - another form
of more or less close personal contact
- has become obsolete.




»CL0:Whether we see it or ignore it, the
scene has always been dependent on
word-of-mouth - surely a person can
start doing graphics, music or code on
his/her own, but this does not
necessarily make that person a scener.
A person need to be told about the
scene, and preferably first-hand since
everything show that this creates the
biggest impression. Yet the internet
is rapidly making word of mouth
obsolete - everyone can get everything
they need without actually meeting or
talking to another person, and
thereby, the chance of meeting a
scener who potentially could make a
person interested interested in the
scene is decreasing.


Surely the internet makes
communication easier for the ones who
already are on the scene, but I'm far
>from sure that it makes it easier to
actually join the scene.
      »PIC:Darklight.+EC_12.iff»









As the internet makes people less
social, it becomes harder to recruit
new sceners - perhaps computer freaks
even grow more shy. What makes me
think that?
Have you ever visited The Party -
something which is supposedly there
for sceners to socialize: 3 halls
mainly filled with people using the
net to get some new stuff, not talking
to eachother, just netting and
occasionally sleeping and eating.



This does not mean that the scene is
threatened by death, but it does mean
that we have a challenge - a challenge
to spread the word better in order to
get more new sceners, and a challenge
for ourselves not to be caught by the
internets flaws and stop talking to
each other. 