»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
 »CL8:»BIG:Open Letter to the TP Organizers
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

           »CL4:by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:This article has been sent to the
organizers of TP, and will also be
published in the Eurochart issue #41,
to get the maximum response, and to
make the scene aware of what is
happening in regards to TP 10. It is
my hope that we will get response from
the TP organizers, which we can then
publish too, and that others will
follow up, and write their suggestions
here in this mag. There is still over
half a year until TP 10, so
THEORETICALLY (if the TP organizers
are serious and really do want to
accomodate us), your opinions will
matter.

»CL8:Anyway, an introduction of me and why
I think I'm qualified to offer my
suggestions (read: why I think that
I'm right in everything I write, heh)
would be in its place for the benefit
of the TP organizers. Other readers
should just skip over this selfish,
backclapping part.

I have been an Amiga scener since 89',
I have attended aprox. 40 sceneparties
in all manner of countries, amongst
them TP2-9, I have usually written
party reports from those parties, and
I am, amongst other things, one of
themaineditors on the currently most
popular Amiga mag, the EuroChart. I
have also been the mainorganizer of 6
Amiga only sceneparties, and
co-organizer on some other parties.
Well, that about sums up the things
relevant to parties andmaking
suggestions I guess, so no need to
embellish my scene career any
furtherhere.

»CL0:This year, the TP organizers are
saying that they want to go back to
the roots, back to the basics, that
they want to make TP appeal to sceners
again. Well, when I heard that the
first time, I honestly only had a
sardonic smile to show to that claim,
and I guess that's still the case, but
that's no excuse for not providing
them with the input and suggestions
they say they would like. So, if
there's any remote chance of TP
getting better, I guess we owe both us
and them to try. At last year's TP,
when everything was over, I had the
feeling that I didn't really want to
attend the next year, and I'm usually
tolerant enough to sort out all the
bad things and focus on the good
stuff.. Last year's TP was the worst
TP ever for me though, which in itself
is no surprise, since every TP since
TP2 has been worse than the previous.
What I feel is wrong with TP I think I
share with most other sceners, that's
also why I try to speak for all here
in this article. So, before coming
with any suggestions as to how TP 10
should be arranged, I will list the
bad things at TP (both general and the
latest TP), and these things are, in
my opinion really what keeps sceners
away from TP, all points are
important, and when I've talked to the
organizers about those points, all
I've ever heard were excuses (it's not
our fault, we can't do it any other
way, etc.), so around 97' I ceased
complaining at TP really, it was
getting me nowhere, I felt the
organizers did what they wished to,
and were otherwise blind. Heh, I sound
like the bitter, slighted man now, but
I guess there are many of my kind,
many who have complained over the same
points over the years, and given up
because nothing really changed. With
this 'opening' that the TP organizers
have made now, I try again, although
it's really up to them to show how
SERIOUS they are. I think I know how
they could arrange a good sceneparty,
which they claim is their aim. Well
then, after this article, it is all up
to them. And again I must note, that
if you as a scener have different
opinions than I (or think I do not
delve deep enough into some topics),
we would like to receive these
opinions, we will then sort these into
another article, and send it to the TP
organizers too. Ahh, anyway, enough
pre-prattling, now we go over to the
promised points about what makes TP a
bad party. They are not really sorted
after degree of seriousness, although
I think it is obvious what are
relatively 'minor' problems, and what
are more serious. Here we go:


»CL9:1.»CL8: The entrance fee is too high.
   You've heard it thousands of times
before, and instead of saying 'yes,
maybe it is', you excuse yourself with
things like rent, network, prizes,
etc. Maybe you should think about how
you could lower the entrancefee
instead, also if that involves taking
DRASTIC measures (which is the excuse
you most often use against NOT doing
it). Infact, the entrancefee has
steadily risen during the years,
from.. Hrmm, was it 120 Dkr in 92 (?)
to the totally outrageous fee last
year. I'm sure you know much better
than me what makes it more expensive
(like the hallowners demanding more
rent, the introduction of network,
etc.), but that is really irrelevant..
The entrancefee has to go down. I have
several suggestions as to how that
might be achieved while at the same
time making TP a better party, weird
as that might sound. More on that
later.

    »PIC:Darklight.+EC_06.iff»













»CL9:2.»CL8: Many organizers are simply too
   lame/inexperienced or, in a word
that fits all, non-scenish. Sceners
are a demanding lot, we are also in
some ways a very arrogant lot. At a
scene party, we expect organizers who
are dedicated sceners like ourselves,
people that understand our viewpoints
and care about them, people with whom
we can talk and booze, in short, not
excusing, stressed, inexperienced,
non-caring non-sceners. The over-all
organizing at TP is very professional,
but it is not in a scenish spirit, it
is big, commercial and feels.. Alien
to us somehow. Be that as it may, but
the many smaller organizers, like
network and demolab crew are not
always professional, probably because
there are so many. They are just
ordinary people thrust into being
somehow responsible, and that often
shows. Netcrew who don't care about
problems but are playing games
themselves instead and demolab crew
who do not know what a demo is
(exaggeration here, and they are
friendly enough, but there's ALWAYS
problems with the demolab, hrmm). Less
and more dedicatedorganizers are
probably the magic words. Yes, that
means a smaller party too,but I'll get
to that part.







»CL9:3.»CL8: This is the most important point I
   think. And it is a point which I
think the organizers are well aware
of, since they are talking about going
back to the roots, doing TP for our
sake, etc. PC gamers / leechers /
pornowatchers, in short LAMERS! Yep,
that is what REALLY kills all spirit
for the sceners on TP (maybe the
spirit isn't there anyway, but there
is no way any sort of scene spirit
could survive amidst 3000
unproductive, uncreative PC nerds).
Yes, I write PC lamers, because, quite
frankly, those who come to TP with a
C64 or Amiga are creative people,
almost all sceners, but not
neccesarily. They are deeply dedicated
computer owners, none of them have
their machines for gaming /
pornoleeching, and this is the central
point. All those non-productive,
non-creative net LAMERS are the
biggest problem. TP can never with any
shred of credibility call it self a
sceneparty as long as there are more
of that kind than sceners, and sceners
HATE attending parties that cater to
the lowest denominator, that is,
parties which feel like they are
arranged for those masses. It kills
all joy and creativity watching row
upon endless row with people playing
netgames, leeching warez, watching
porno, etc. So, that is the main
problem if TP AT LAST wants to go back
to the roots and become a scene party.
Those people were the mainreason that
TP became, with a 'nice' word, a
multimedia event, and although there
are many other reasons for this (like
no main organizer actually being a
scener or really seeming to care about
the scene.. Or wait ok, only one then,
there is some C64 scener organizer,
right?) Oh yes, and before you think
me completely fanatic and
narrow-minded, I must ofcourse say
that I do not have anything against
these activities/people normally,
indeed, I might be a leecher myself,
but I attend computerparties as a
scener, and THEN it irritates me to no
end seeing all those people,
completely oblivious to how it all
began, to what we are doing, etc. Most
don't even care about the scene, they
just want to play their silly games
and leech illegal wares as much as
possible. That would be fine on a

   »PIC:Darklight.+EC_10.iff»














netparty, on a gameconvent, etc., but
NEVER on a sceneparty. The more you
have of one kind, the less you can
have of the other kind.
»CL9:4.»CL8: Taking sceners for granted. Well,
   you are beginning to stop that now,
maybe you see how many dissatisfied
sceners there are, finally. But at TP,
it feels like the scener is just like
any other person attending, and
treated like any other person, or
infact worse. Somehow it never seems
like the bodycrashing or burgereating
compo's have their entries messed up,
or discarded with no info ;) And
people seem to be MUCH more interested
in compo's like the burgereatingcompo.
Including the organizers. There were
MANY more people (people?
Lamers..)present during that contest
than during any other I noted. Very
inspiring,maybe we should quit making
productions, and just see who can eat
burgers fastthen? We would get more of
an audience then, heh. Also, it
irritates me to noend to see how TP
uses OUR work to glorify themselves in
their opening/etc.ceremonies, when
they are pissing off sceners due to
these points I list here,and when you
don't do anything for us during the
parties, like showing demoswhen there
is all the time in the world to do so,
or like having special sceneevents and
surprise competitions anymore, like
other parties have, and when,infact,
less and less sceners actually want to
attend TP. It seems wrong. Itwould be
ok if you showed a bit more open
respect for the scene, with deeds
andnot only words. But once again, you
have the chance to do just that.


»CL9:5.»CL8: Handling the votes. Last year, I
   was witness to the WORST voting
system in some time, and some STUPID,
grinning organizers, who actually
thought voting went very well (and
again the excuse: But we thought long
and hard about this, and I thought it
worked good/it can't be done better,
etc.). This REALLY shows that none of
the organizers (again, except one
maybe) seem to understand the scene,
seem to know what happens, seem to
know what results are weird or seem to
know that sceners CAN be tempted to
votefake. Thinking votegiving went
well on TP is tantamount to knowing
nothing at all really. That might be
excusable, but making a votingsystem
with such OBVIOUS shortcomings strikes
me as incredibly stupid, like having
learned nothing at all. Ok, let me
explain 2 reasons for this. One: You
get your votekey in a pamphlet. You
can use that votekey to vote.
Everybody gets a pamphlet when they
arrive. So, everybody can steal
pamphlets, create as many accounts
they want and then use those votekeys
gained to votefake. So, this makes it
obvious that it is a very vulnerable
system. The organizers should have
known this. And second: These people
described under point 3 do not care
about the scene, they do NOT want to
vote, they couldn't care less if it
isn't a game, a movie, mp3 or porno.
So they just leave their pamphlets
lying around. Combine these two
points, and you have all the
votefaking that took place. And this
shouldn't take much brainpower to
realize BEFORE implementing the system
really? Votefaking was perhaps the one
major blow against my enjoyment of
last year's TP (after all, everything
else was as it was the previous year,
and my partyreport, which ends neutral
was written before the prizegiving. If
I had written it after the prizegiving
and after some talks with completely
oblivious and non-caring organizers,
it would NOT even have been a neutral
conclusion). Yep, why do you think the
police arrived to stop some people
from having a bonfire outside? Do I
have to spell it out to you WHAT they
burned? ;)



»CL9:6.»CL8: You have a bigscreen. You have
audioequipment. You say both are of
the best quality.. USE THEM! Watching
the same info for hours on hours is a
waste. Always when we ask about you
showing something (like A500 demoshow)
on the bigscreen, the anser is: 'Ehrr,
we can't do that' or 'something
important is JUST about to come up on
the screen' (there never is) or 'ehh..
later'. It is a waste not to use the
bigscreen at all times, and then just
have those info bulletins once or
twice each hour. You can always use
the speaker system for announcing
immediate stuff, like people having to
remove their cars, etc. It irritates
some that the bigscreen is never used
to its full extent, showing demos,
etc.
»CL0:So, after all this negativity, after
all this release of bile, after all
this destruction, comes the time to
rebuild, come with suggestions on how
to make it better, and also to be more
friendly (might as well put THAT here
too, hehe). I know the mainorganizers
do a tremendous job in organizing TP
each year, and as stated, the
organizing is professional. They do
care about their party it seems, only
problem is that TP is not a scene
party anymore and their focus is not
on the sceners (or, they have done too
little to show that focus,  at least).
It is not only the fault of the
organizers that this happened.
Ofcourse, they let it happen, to a
certain degree, but it is kinda' hard
to not let it happen. Gradually more
and more normal computer owners came
to TP, because more and more 'normal'
people got computers. Those normal
people were not computer nerds like
us, they were the masses. I remember
some TP's from 93-96 or something,
were they showed the statistics on how
many people were present, under the
headings of computertype. In 93,
Amiga's and PC's were almost equal, 3
years after, the balance was so
unequal that it was sad to look at
(guess that was why they dropped it),
now it would be worse of course, but
that unequalness is probably also
roughly the unequalness between
sceners and normal computer owners.
And I used to gauge how cool a TP
could have the potential of being by
watching the number of Amiga owners
vs. the number of PC owners. This
might sound biased, but it's really
not, I know there are serious PC
owners too, etc., but the vast flood
of PC owners are, for obvious reasons,
the masses I have negatively described
earlier, while almost all Amiga (and
ALL C64) owners are serious people, if
not sceners. So.. as promised.
Solutions and suggestions coming up,
some of them should be obvious from
what I have written before, some are
diplomatic solutions, trying to find
the middleway which can satisfy most
people. However, I don't really like
the middleway, if the organizers are
serious about listening to our
feedback, then I will describe how TP
can again become the best and biggest
SCENE party, for all computertypes.
The MekkaSymposium has held that
status for years now, but with drastic
measures, TP can make a comeback and
go in the total opposite direction of
The Gathering, another good old scene
party totally ruined (even more
ruined, infact). It is up to the
organizers to take these steps.

Hey.. Stop up a moment.. Gee, I really
do write a lot, don't I? Guess I could
shorten this article down to 1 page
with complaints and suggestions, but
it is also a lot about feelings of
course, so this has to be big and
blurry, hehe.




»CL8:Ahh well, onwards to my dream vision
(although I don't place much hope in
it happening, and for me, it doesn't
matter that much, we luckily have
other, good sceneparties) of how TP
could be. I'm only writing this
because the TPorganizers themselves
asked for stuff like this, they even
asked whether they should hold a
scene-only party, and therefore I dare
to write the following. Months ago I
would not have wasted time on it,
because my impression was that the TP
organizers would NEVER change TP that
drastically. We will see..

So, you ask if TP should be for
sceners only? My immediate answer,
without thought of the consequences is
a resounding YES! No scener really
needs those PC gamers / leechers
/pornovoyeurs present, they have
absolutely no need to be present.
Don't say (like I heard one of you say
once, argh), that they pay for us and
our prizes, that is not THAT true, you
have a lot of extra expenses because
of 3000 'normal' computer owners
sitting and gaming over the net. Going
back to the real basics, you could do
a cheaper party with a lower entrance
fee, and still very good prizes. Only
creative, scene interested computer
owners should be present, that is,
back to the roots, back to the real
computer nerds who do all manner of
weird things with their computers (and
I don't mean gaming here), back to the
real computer enthusiasts. Not only
sceners but also serious computer
owners, who want to be present at a
party that is about the scene and
being creative with one's computer.
However, I doubt you really WANT to
take this step. The scene has become
smaller since you first started, even
though PCs are everywhere nowadays. My
estimate is that, overcoming all other
problems, TP's size would be reduced
to between 800-1200 people next time.
I think you wouldn't want to go from
being the worlds biggest computer
party to merely being a good party ;)
The MS has around 1200 visitors, which
all are either sceners or somewhat
creative, but the MS has become famous
amongst sceners for being a scene
party, while almost everybody slaggs
off TP. Years back, sceners travelled
from all over the world to visit TP,
nowadays they don't want to spend
money on that, and that is completely
understandable, since there is not
much for them to come after anymore.
Rather, they save up for going to
Fallingbostel in the Easter. It will
take some time and some effort before
TP would reestablish itself as a
sceneparty. But when it did, sceners
will start coming again, because,
after all, as they will say, it IS The
Party, and you have a well established
image from 91-94 at least. So, who can
attend and who can't? It would be hard
to distinguish between who is a scener
and who is not, unless you were
extremely knowledgable, and sorta'
interviewed people before they
entered, hehe. There is ONE easy thing
to do,which would almost certainly
guarantee that no non-scener or
non-dedicated, non-serious computer
owner (although some of these wouldn't
come either, at least not right away)
would attend, totally without you
checking for who is a scener or not.
Guessed it? Completely remove the
network! Whoaah, easy now, take a deep
breath, heh. I know the network can be
used for many things, but it is also
THE important factor for all the
lamers attending, while it ranges from
being nice to being totally
unimportant for sceners. For what do
sceners use the network? Chatting,
voting and, like everybody else,
leeching. I'm of the opinion that,
going back to the roots, the network
has to go. I'm VERY sure you are not
prepared to do that (but think of the
expenses, manpower and organizing
saved). But, if you want to make a
scene only party, I think it will not
matter with the network, that it would
indeed be positive NOT to haveit.
Sceners can (and should) chat with
each other in real life (preferably
over a beer too, but that's another
topic), voting can be done via voting
disks for instance, you could easily
get some groups to code such things
for C64, Amiga and PC (and it would
really remind one of the glory days of
92-93, where we did that, hehe), and
leeching.. Well yes, that is
irritating, but then again, nothing
stops sceners from connecting their
computers in a network (so that groups
can produce stuff efficiently, or 2
people can swap some stuff fast,etc.),
it is only you who do not provide a
network. As for getting the released
productions, well, usually you don't
have those online before after the
newyear anyway, hehe.. Ahh well, this
is extreme for you, even MS has a
network.

»CL0:They tackle the gamers by outlawing
games being played on their net, and
having special filters to stop this,
but it is not totally effective, and
as I said, sceners would generally not
miss network, if you give them a real
scene party instead, and it would be
the easiest way to remove the biggest
obstacle tohaving a sceneparty (read:
PC gamers/etc.). A compromise to this
would be tokeep network but to have it
limited, like the MS. But then you
don't save money, which you do need to
save, for prizes and other things, and
you will need more organizers, which
is not that good. Less is more. Ok, as
for where to arrange it. You have
probably already rented Aars Hallerne
again, so this is not really feasible
this year, if you even thought about
it, since you would not need more than
1 hall. However, in the future, you
could find a cheaper place, that could
accomodate around 1000 people, and
THIS year, you could get an estimate
about how many people you would
attract in this way by isolating Hall
1 (as you have also suggested) for use
by sceners only. However, as I said,
this year, there will probably be an
all time low in the amount of sceners
present. You have to regain trust
again. Ahh yes, the last thing here.
If you have thought about splitting up
TP in order to make a scene party and
a multimedia party (maybe on different
dates, or in different locations), it
is imperative that the scene party be
the 'main' one, that is, the one with
most effort and coverage, and that it
is held on the 27-29th December.
However, I don't think splitting TP up
in this way is that good an idea, and
besides, can't those leechers/gamers
find other netparties to do just that?
    »PIC:EC224x56x64»






»CL8:So, now we go over to my diplomatical
middle-way solution. I might as well
have dropped the first one, because as
stated a lot of times, I don't think
you will actually realize that one,
although that would be the best for
the scene, and it is not only my
opinion, but that of most sceners I
have talked with about this topic, we
simply do not need the masses, being
present together with them can only
diminish a sceneparty. So, this is a
compromise, being together with them,
but a little bit seperated from them.
It is a problematic and not so easy
compromise, and it is by far not
enough either, but let's take it one
step at a time. First of all: Who are
sceners and who are not? However, by
explicitly stating that Hall 1 is
reserved for sceners (that is, all
sceners get a place there, others will
have to move), and by placing the
best/fastest network in the other
halls, one can make Hall 1 more
serious. But, correct me if I'm wrong,
was that not precisely what you did
last time? It is not enough. Most
sceners sat in the upper half of the
hall last year, and the scener/lamer
(excuse my using this word for a
normal computerowner bringing with him
his PC, but in this regard, they do
count as lamers, so don't feel hit
here, hehe) ratio there was maybe 1/4,
that is one scener, 4 lamers. In Hall
3 it probably was 0/1xxx and in the
other halls 1/15-20 maybe, based on me
going around looking and chatting as
usual, but that is of course in no way
an exact estimate. I'm sorry, but I
can't see any real solution by doing
this. Some sceners and especially
normal but serious/creative computer
owners will choose to be seated in
other places, with a fast network, but
yes, most sceners would, if they knew
they could, choose to sit in one
place. I'm doubtful as to how that
will turn out though, since the ratio
still was 1/4 last year, up there.
Still, I heard some positive remarks
about this last year, but I think that
was because we are not at all
accustomed to ANY visible special
treatment on TP, so we get astonished
at all things, hehe. So, with this
solution, more needs to be done, to
make the scener feel special and
wanted. You can keep the entire TP
structure, but you must make the
scener feel in some way separated (one
could also say 'above') from the
masses, and you must make him feel
special. The first thing I can't see
how can be accomplished under this
solution, apart from making Hall 1
totally sceners only. There would
however be a lot of space left then
(there are maybe 500 attending
sceners? It feels like there are only
50-100, but I don't know anything
about PC sceners either), and as
stated, who is a scener and who is
not? I could, by extreme prejudice
maybe select who was,and who was not,
an Amiga scener, I know all the
groups, etc., but it is obvious that
this is not feasible at all, and
people would get angry, somewould get
treated unfairly, etc.. So, feeling
separated, if at all possible, is not
enough. Feeling special then. Yes, how
to do that? There are several points
here. Firstly, have a good and working
delivery system, which does NOT
misplace/delete entries and make sure
sceners are responsible for the
demolab (NOT Finnish sceners though,
hahah). Secondly, use the big screen!
And mostly/only use it for scenish
stuff. If the sceners are sitting in
front of it (which they will, if they
have most of hall 1), they will love
it, and not complain about the volume
(well, if it does not constantly play
loud anyway), but be happy that they
can see something that matters to
them. There was not much happening
demowise on the big screen apart from
the compos last year, although I
offered to do a demoshow, etc. Doing
that would be the spark that could
kindle the party-feeling for the
sceners really, if the mainfocus was
on such things. Thirdly, remove all
those LAME competitions that have
nothing with creativity or the scene
to do, or throw those competitions
into Hall 2 or 3. Let people gawk at
fast burgereaters in there ;) Instead,
make more scenish competitions, but do
not invent NEEDLESS competitions, like
all those different PC demo categories
of last year (one PC demo, accelerated
because everybody has an 'accelerated'
PC, and one JAVA compo, NO windows,
linux, DOS, lameOS, etc.
democompetitions!). On the MS, they
have had scene quiz's with people on
stage making fools of themselves
(heh), guess the tune compos, etc..
Might be sceners would appreciate
small, surprise competitions.
Fourthly, and maybe most important,
you should make sceners enter for, say
50-75% of the normal entrancefee. Yes,
take a deep breath again, hehe. There
are maybe 500 sceners attending as
said, you can do the math yourself,
the real problem is to know who's a
scener and who's not, but you'll have
to figure out a way of knowing that
anyway, if you want to have control
over who sits where in hall 1. Making
sceners get in cheaper would make them
feel special of course, and would
show the world that you treat the
people that made TP possible with
care, etc. I'm sure you could come up
with other ways to make the sceners
feel a little more special and wanted,
but I think you will have to do one or
more drastic thingsif you keep TP this
way instead of going for solution 1.
It is not enough to be a bit more
scener friendly, if you want to
salvage what's left and avoid ending
up like TG, you have to do something
semi-drastic at least. And then, you
mustgive it time to work too, because
at this years TP, there will probably
be even less sceners than last year,
due especially to last year.






»CL0:Ok, now over to miscellaneus things to
improve TP for sceners, no mattter
which solution you pick, as the last
header before concluding. Get an
invitro done for the 3 major systems,
make sure NOT to neglect the smaller
systems in the compo's, like the C64,
DON'T drop the 4k competition, don't
act too cool (I haaaate your closing
ceremonies), get a jury in most
competitions to sort out the worst
entries, give honest answers instead
of those standard answers I have
mentioned above and TAKE PART IN THE
SCENE YOURSELF! I believe you
sincerely want to support us, but you
ARE outsiders to the scene it seems,
sceners organizing parties make the
best (scene) parties, logically
enough.
»CL8:Pheeew! Rather long one, infact VERY
long. Hope you are not too bored, and
as for the TP organizers, I really
hope you reflect on my words, I have
written nothing that is exclusively my
own opinion, I think I have hit a part
of everyone's opinions and suggestions
here, and well, if you want to make a
scene party again, I think you'd do
well to accept the critique here, and
also embrace the suggestions, although
I don't think you'll follow the pure
scene party part, sadly. That could
get very interesting and promising
however, and would really show that
you meant this year's slogan. You are
of course more than welcome to email
me back with any thoughts and
questions, you are also welcome to
write a more complete response to my
text, which we will then publish in
our Eurochart and generally spread in
the scene. You may infact also slagg
me off if you feel like it, afterall,
I have been rather harsh in many
areas, so if you feel you have to let
off steam.. Hehe.. Well, overall I
hope something constructive will come
of this! :) 
»CL0:
 »CL8:»BIG:Update 
»CL9:»SML: --------

Well, well, guess what.. I sent in
this article one and a half month ago
to thesceneloves@theparty.dk (nyargh!
What LAME email address is that? Those 
organizers must be pretty blind if 
they think the scene actually loves 
them), and what happened? Ofcourse 
nothing happened, I did not get any 
feedback at all from them, only 
silence. Well, that's just what I 
thought, afterall the organizers are 
not really out to change their party, 
probably they only want to placate all 
of their critics. Ahh well, that's 
their loss and ignorance, so nothing 
more to add to this article I guess..
