»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »CL8:»BIG:The Generation Gap
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

          »CL4:by Curt Cool/Depth

»CL0:The hardware race is a phenomenon we
all know about, whether we are
actually in the race or not. Or in
other words, we either have friends
who curses or makes fun of our lack 
of will to upgrade, or we are the ones
annoyed by the fact that our friends
really don't bother spending much cash
on their machine, since they're pretty
happy as it is, though it can't really
run all the latest stuff.
Now you might be asking: Oh, but isn't
this really just something which
applies to the PCs (not just the scene
but PCs and their owners in general). 
It is not - not anymore, anyway. 
The past years have seen the
appearance of several clever periphals
for the old school Amigas, like fast 
accelerators (060/PPC/...), GFX cards, 
soundcards - things which can 
certainly make a demo more impressive 
- that is, if you actually possess the
items, because if you don't, watching 
the demo is a no-go or slideshow on
your machine - and surely, if you
don't own a state-of-the-art Amiga,
you see yourself in this position
from time to time.

»CL8:If we look at the metaphorical concept
of a race - something where you want
to be no. 1 - it is clear that some
are left behind, and if someone are
left behind, there is a gap between
no. 1 and no. 2, no. 2 and no. 3 etc.,
as well as between no. 1 and no. 29
etc. etc. This gap can be considered a
generation gap, and at the moment, I
dare say this gap is rapidly growing,
depending on each racer's position in
the race, of course.

»CL0:But why a generation gap? Firstly,
the gap is between different
generations of Amiga computers and
Amiga accelerators, and secondly, the
gap is between people - those who
upgrade all the time, those who
upgrade when they think they really
have to and those who wouldn't upgrade
if someone pointed a gun at their 
head. And besides, the generation gap
also covers different generations of
sceners - the old sceners are more
likely to say things like: "Things 
were better in 1992, I certainly won't
upgrade" than new sceners who never
experienced it.


      »PIC:Darklight.+EC_06.iff»












»CL8:This generation gap is, like the
generation gap as it appears in real
life, a thing which is a source to
many discussions between these people
- discussions which, at least in the
old days often caused quite a stir -
as well as misunderstandings both
between the people, and, as some might
put it, between the computers as well.

But what is the result of this gap?
The nature of a gap is that it divides
and takes some things apart as it
appears. And as this happens on our
quite small scene, which is already
divided, since sceners are mostly
connected to eachother via the
internet, the number of ways in which
the scene is divided is increasing.
Naturally, this is not a good thing -
the ideal scene has one platform which
is standard for everyone which makes
it possible for everyone to watch
every production and spot which one
uses the machine to its full
potential. The ideal scene is a scene
where everyone is able to meet
eachother in person when they want to
without any hassle. Of course this is
a scenish utopia, but it is something
worth working for - yet, unlike others
I don't see myself in a position where
I tell or try to force other people to
up- or downgrade - this article is
here to cover the prospects of the
ongoing development, and these
certainly don't look bright - so let
us hope and work for a better scene
with room for everyone. 