                    »CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
                   »CL8:»BIG:- Are Party-Organizers from Satan? -
»CL9:»SML:                    --------------------------------------

           »CL4:by Morph/Trinity

»CL0:It has happened to us twice in a row
now - we've prepared for a party and
contributed with many high-quality
releases just because of the friendly
organizers. They promised us good
prizes, a good party and a friendly
atmosphere. It ended quite different
both times, in the same disgusting
way.









First it was Birdie 2k in Sweden. Me
and Stanley/Trinity and some other
friends attended it even though we
expected a lame party, I'd been there
the year before and it was a total
disaster for us. We only had three
releases that year; a tune which got
disqualified because it crashed their
Winamp (it was .it), a 2d which they
showed a working of instead of the
final picture and got next to last in
the competition, and finally a
3d-animation which never was shown as
the whole compo was cancelled. This
time the party was to be organized by
other more experienced people, they
claimed. And it looked like it - I
spoke a lot with them before the party
and they motivated me to make us
support then quite heavily. I got to
Birdie 2k with 15 releases, ending up
releasing only a few of them. We won
the PC 64k-intro compo, got second in
4-channel music and third in
multi-channel. We could also have won
the pixel compo but withdraw because
of the low quality of the other
releases.

After Birdie 2k it was Flag party 2000
in Hungary. The organizers were real
sceners and the party was to be a
scene-event, not filled up with
gamers. Due to many sponsors they
promised to give away great prizes,
and we thought like contributing some.
We delivered nine releases to the
organizers of which only three were
shown. We got second in multi-channel
music and third in pixel-graphics.
»CL8:When the parties were over the same
thing happened at both of them - the
organizers claimed they were going
bankrupt because they expected more
people to show up and because of that,
they couldn't give out any prizemoney
at all. At Birdie we could have some
pizza if we liked. Well, perhaps I
should feel sorry for them and support
them, be a nice and humble human being
and simply trust them. Or perhaps I
should become furious and demand to
get proof for what they're saying -
who knows, maybe they now are rich
bastards because of the smart trick
they pulled off.
     »PIC:budgie-euro2.iff»










Both parties had been working a lot on
their homepages before the party to
attract attendees, but after the party
they were both too lazy to officially
explain what happened. Flag is just
some days away, so maybe they have one
now, I can't tell. The
Birdie-organizers were too lazy to
even upload the results. What kind of
style is that? They did claim that
they were scene parties organized to
be an assembly for people to meet and
have fun. A party built on friendship.
Right now I can only see rich
organizers in front of me, smiling
widely as they've fooled me. Why
should I just trust them? I have no
reason at all.

I can tell you that the
Flag-organizers has promised us some
things by airmail, just minor stuff
but it at least makes me feel a bit
happier. It shows that they maybe did
care, that they maybe did tell the
truth. It could be a trick though, who
can tell? The Birdie-organizers on the
other hand couldn't even give me back
a power-cable I forgot at the
party-place. "I'll take care of that!"
has been their reply five times now,
still, nothing has happened. Also they
suddenly claimed another group won the
intro compo and that they forgot us.
Not that we care really. On top of
that they uploaded releases we didn't
even compete with, forcing me to write
them several mails asking to delete
them. Some week later they did,
believe it or not.

»CL0:My point is simple: question the
organizers. Do not always trust their
image - some of them just want you to
attend their party without caring
about you at all. Some just want you -
the scener - to give some depth and
originality to their gaming event and
knows nothing at all about the scene.
Dreamhack in Sweden is the perfect
example there, to attract sceners this
year they're asking for help, "we want
to support the scene", then why not at
least be a little involved first? Some
just want to get respect on the scene
by being able to say "I'm a party
organizer!" Some may be doing it just
to get some more money in their
pockets (how come Dreamhack flashes in
my mind again?) and doesn't care jack
shit about you. Some organize parties
because their love of the demoscene -
try finding such people. Feel free to
share them with me when you find them.

»CL7: - niclaz@visto, http://i.am/morph -
