»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
        »CL8:»BIG:The OCS Movement
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

           »CL4:by Darkhawk/IRIS

»CL0:It is my naive hope that with this
article, I can start some trend in the
scene. Well, the trend already is
there, although it is neither well
supported or known right now. Hrmm,
what am I babbling about? Hey, the
trend of doing A500 demos!
 
Why not try to turn OCS demomaking
into a real movement again? The making
of demos for the A500 and the
associated machines ended rather
abruptly with the advent of the AGA
Amiga's, and that was all well and
good back then, but now that the AGA
Amiga's have been caught in the
chunky/3D trap from where there seems
to be no escape, why not try to go in
the opposite direction, and check out
whether that might produce some
original and pleasing results again?
Sceners have been making A500
productions over the past years, for
example Jormas made most of their
productions run an A500 aswell (not
the latest though), TEK released a
trackmo at MS98 (or was it 97?),
A lot of groups released oldsk00l
demos, musics, etc, at Assembly, 
this year (brilliant initiative, by 
the way!), but these efforts
have lacked coordination and
advertisement. What we need is to
establish a movement, a kind of
sub-scene dealing in A500 stuff. Maybe
then more people would get aware of
the A500 and the groups still
producing for it. Those groups could
greet other A500 producing groups only
in their greets for example, there
are many possibilities. 

»CL8:As to why we need to go back to OCS
demomaking, I have written an article
about it elsewhere in this mag, for
now, suffice it to say that I
personally enjoy well done old demos
(and newer demos done in OCS for
instance) much more than new demos, it
strikes me as much more aesthetically
rewarding watching them. That is a
matter of taste though, and I'm not
saying that we should all leave the
060/PPC for pure 68k0 demomaking, just
that it would be nice with an active
alternative here in our scene, it
might be a breath of fresh air in this
otherwise quite innovative-stale scene
we have now, and it might force people
to consider all sorts of things, when
they are confronted with a well done
A500 demo. Or maybe not, but I think
it is worth a try. 

In a time where everyone is focusing
on upgrading, I think it would be
healthy to return to simpler, cleaner 
values and show the world that quality
(read: Art) can be produced no matter
what processor you have. Thus, I
really hope that we can manage to
create some sort of OCS scene again, a
scene where the groups greet other
groups affiliated with OCS, a scene
where musicians try to make melodies
and catchy tunes (Desert Dream
anyone?), not sample and beat ripping
in 16 channels, a scene where coders
try to work inside the limits of their
specs, and amaze the audience when
they seem to beat those limits,
displaying their excellence, a scene
where graphicians create stunning and
original works of art with only 16 or
32 colors, etc. It can be done you
know, it was done before. Maybe the
scene was more skilled back then, if
you think it can't be done anymore?
Anyway, why not try to do it? Do both
OCS and AGA/GFXCard demos, you will
hopefully enjoy it! Only demand for an
OCS demo, is that it runs on an A500
with 512kb extra (slow) fastmem,
ofcourse you should make it run on all
Amiga's (except the A1000 maybe) if
you can. We are currently working on a
trackloaded OCS demo, complete with
world records and never before seen
routines, and are assembling a team of
OCS fanatics to do it, we hope others
will continue the trend and make it
more than the submovement it has been
in the past. So, contact me if you and
your group are interested in this OCS
movement thingie, so that I can know
and write about your plans and 
progress, I really hope we can do 
something pivotal for the scene with 
this! Respect to all OCS'ers out 
there, let's try to introduce 
something old (new) to the scene 
again!
