»CL9:--------------------------------------
»CL8:             »BIG:PPC suxx???
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:        by Makak/Reason+Moons

»CL0:In issue#40 of the official Eurochart
we can find Darkhawk/Iris' reply to
the article "On West Without Changes".
I don't want to write about his whole
article here (anyway, that guy isn't
right in his views), only about the
part discussing PPC and using this CPU
in demo coding.

»CL8:Dear Darkhawk, you're writing that
making demos on PPC doesn't make any
sense. I think it's totally different.
PowerPC is that what we really need
now - CPU with more MIPS on the board.
68k processors are out of the
question; they aren't worth anything
now. Even 68060 - it's horribly
expensive, and doesn't offer much for
its price. Of course when the first
1260 or CyberStorm 060 cards were
entering the market that was
SOMETHING. But now? We haven't any
other ways than PPC. Unless someone
boundless trust Amiga Inc. and what
they're now doing... I'm with them
with all my heart, but what matters is
HERE and NOW. And Now PPC is the only
solution.

»CL0:So what about demos? Shall we do them
on PPC or not? The only sense answer
is YES! The capabilities of the
Motorola 680x0 family of CPUs are
almost used to their full extent. And
I think that demos must show, what can
be done with a computer. How we can do
this, if we're not using the full
power of computers, eh? PPC demos are
now the only chance to see something
really new. In other case we will
still watch slow as hell scenes with
dark and inexact textures. We'll still
watch simple 3d objects that only the
author knows what really show. Will
you finally understand that PPC is our
only hope?

In his article, Darkhawk has written
that Poles must really hate C64 demos.
I must say that's totally bullshit. We
love those demos very much. I know
something about it, because I've met
many people with the same opinion. I
admire C64 demos, because their
authors have crossed hardware barriers
and made impossible things. They do
more with those little computers more
even their constructors imagined
possible. Why can't we do the same? We
have needed hardware and gifted
people. So why the fuck don't we do
that? Eh, why?

     »PIC:Budgie-euro2.iff»










»CL8:I know! Let's start making demos on
A500! Hmm, maybe I've exaggarated some
- let's make demos for better
machines, for example A1200 with fast
mem =) In Darkhawk's article I've
noticed a strange paradox. He doesn't
see any sense in making demos which
needs PPC to work. But demos on fast
68k processors are ok. I can't
understand it... If you write "Fuck
PPC" (I know, I'm generalising =), so
why don't you write "Fuck 68060"?
Baisically it's about the same -
making demos for stronger machines.

You don't want to Amiga demos resemble
PC demos. Of course, one can always
get the ugly textures to look like
fractal generated after drinking some
cheap wine. Better than upgrading
your Amiga =) Man, don't you see way
that what PC demos have chosen isn't
the only possible? Or are your
prejudice towards PC demos so huge
that everyting that requires strong
configuration resembles them?. I don't
think so, because you're too big Amiga
fanatic (you're right, your tattoo IS
an irresputable argument =), but from
your words someone may draw different
conclusions...

»CL8:I'm not sure that a demo which needs
astrong machine is nescessarily
without any design. I think that if
a coder has more CPU power "at his
service", it might actually help him
in building great design. It's hard
to make a good designed demo whose
action is for example in sewers, when
»CL8:you have only simple objects, ugly
textures, and 4 channel modules
with masaccred samples. What demos
look like, that's up to us to decide.
Thanks to to more CPU power, demos
will not be boring and PC-demo-like.
No: Coders can free their minds and
make really new and fresh effects.
That's something we really need, as
there has lately been more and more
demos made with that same old scheme:
scene, tunnel, scene, picture, scene,
end part. Why are you against changing
this?

I always thought that upgrading Amiga
is a big problem especially in our
country, where earnings aren't too
high, and the prices for Amiga
hardware are surely worse than in the
west. But I was mistaken - in Poland
people do really want to upgrade their
computers. Sometimes they're working
for whole holidays or they're
delivering cable TV bills after
school. And what's happening in the
west? People who can buy those cards
with fewer problems than us don't care
about them. OK, that's their choice...
Our best coders are upgrading into
PPC, but it is a slow process. Many
people are dreaming about buying PPC
board, but some of them really can't
afford it. Mavey/Potion recently
bought PPC, so wait for killing
productions. Maybe you will change
your mind, when you get to see his
demos?


»CL0:Darkhawk concludes that western
sceners don't need PPC because they're
sceners. Yes, "I'm using my Amiga only
for scene" - that sentence always
makes me laugh. I don't belive that on
harddrives they haven't got anything
else than scene productions and tools
for the creating of such. So what is
the interview with Darkage software
doing in Eurochart#40? Sceners aren't
interested in games, even the ones
written by other sceners.

I know that this short article isn't
closing whole PPC case, and some people
will still be screaming "PPC suxx". But
now it's time to wake up - to think
about the whole situation, and run to
the shop to buy a PPC board. It's the
only chance for the Amiga scene!

       »PIC:Darklight.+EC_07.iff»













»CL7:   (P.S. I've got only poor 68040 now
   if someone wants to know. But if
   I'll get some job or my parents
   will give me some more money, I'm
   instantly buying my PPC board!) 