»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
         »CL8:»BIG:The Scene Consumers
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

         »CL4:by Slayer/Appendix 
 
»CL0:I want to undertake a ticklish topic.
Lately as I had unpleasantness to
adjoin with certain inglorious
occurrence. It's happened during the
assembly (or conquering?) the articles
for Taboo (our diskmagazine).
I stood up then, face to face with
»CL9:Scene Consumers.



»CL9:          But Who Are They?







»CL0:Maybe in the beginning I will give you
a definition. The scene consumer we
call a man, which feeds on the scene -
feeds on productions formed by real
creative sceners, and doesn't give
completely anything from himself.
Attends oneself he simultaneously for
a full rights member of the scene.
Most numerous group of consumers
determine little ambitious swappers
and already completely passive -
observers. At this, number of these
persons (consumers) is several times
higher than the number of sceners.
Ok, so we have the definition behind
»CL8:oneself. And what do you think about
it? Let's unroll it. I don't see
anything bad in this, when some Amiga
user, which is not very interests in
scene, will watch sometimes a good
demo, whether read a diskmagazine.
Will view, once for once will bite in
two truffles, once for once will drink
a milk - let be him. But situation
diametrically changes, when some user
will interest oneself with scene and
will create a one-member group, only
to, according to him, become a member
of the scene. After that he (she) says
the bugle right and left, that
he(she?) is a scener, assembling
simultaneously more and more on
favourite activity - watching and
consuming the scene productions
(fruit). Very often such person links
several of contacts (most often with
similar to oneself) and becomes a
swapper - if we call it a man which is
able to exchanging the demo-warez
only, without doing anyting useful for
all that time. Then we can call him a
real scene consumer and give him a
free operation of pancreas executed on
nearest party by Neuromancer/Appendix
:) But now, all the swappers want to
operate ME! One even draws out already
the scalpel! Stop! You will wait!
Generalizing is not my intention.

Several lines higher in a definition I
wrote, that consumers are little
ambitious swappers, that are only able
to exchangimg the magabytes of stuff,
and of course to salivate, gazing in
the latest demos. Unfortunately
already even the attempt of creation
of anything (of'course I'm not talking
about another "ultra-super-cool" ASCII
collection) outgrows them. However,
for that group I do not attend a GOOD
SWAPPERS, it means such ones, whiches
are really strongly active on scene by
CREATING for example various packs
etc. Good swappers have a big
knowledge about the scene, they
support various pack and diskmagazines
by sending adverts, news, votes,
messages, results from parties whether
at last articles. Yes, the ARTICLES, I
had never be able to understand, why
the swappers have such resistances in
writing the articles? They can daily
write a hundred kilobytes of letters,
which will read five persons, and of
articles, which will read hundred
onces they so much hesitate how
JazzCat of washing his feet...


 »PIC:Kempy.death_16_end_hires»















»CL0:This occurrence (scene consumers) grew
more in tense lately, or perhaps I
noticed it again. However, the worst
thing in this is that such persons
worship to read diskmagazines, but
there won't even came to their heads
to write something, , simply they are
lazy like shit and they just don't
want to write (other matter, that they
won't have surely also about what to
write). Some of them were used to
consume for long years and now, when
the scene is less numerous, they are
only able to speak: eeee.. scene
dies... ...Desert Dream rulez.. in the
1989 there were a times.. yeaah,
today's scene sucks.. But to move his
ass and DO something to change this
situation - no, it's better to say
bullshits and to massage hamoroids -
yeeh.. that is so more comfortably.
This is just the one from ulcers of
scene - the mass of parasites, whiches
only are able to stick on and to take.

And how looks this state of thing in
the compare with the pc scene? Well,
it looks that that scene already
almost in two third parts consists of
consumers! And let oneself them speak:
We have cool and large scene!
Unfortunately quantity and quality are
something other. Indubitable huge
contribution in this had our favourite
polish print magazine called CD-ACTION
(rulez!) - we thank to you. And with
this optimistic accent I finish my
argument.
