»CL9:--------------------------------------
          »CL8:»BIG:The Party 1999
»SML:        »BIG:Demo/Intro review
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:         by Madbart/Appendix 

»CL0:I don't usually feel like commenting
on parties, but... Perhaps some of you
have noticed that The Party 1999 was
different from the earlier ones? Of
course I am not talking about what the
party was like because I wasn't there,
neither was most of the Polish stage.
;-)












What is the difference? Just look at
the productions. Look back at the
years 93/94/95, even 96. We used to
look at the products of those parties
with admiration - they were something
we aimed for. I think everyone will
agree with me that the products of
those years were unique. just look at
the products of year '99.




Demo competition:

»CL9:1. Concrete »CL8:-»CL9: Ephedrina

»CL0:Demo in style Ephedrina's style - they
have their own style - that is good. A
good demo, but resembling the Flux too
much. However, one shouldn't pick on
that. 

Code - Loaderror one must admit is
quite a good coder. Design is not bad
- in style of Ephedrina (static,
etc...) But looking back at the
earlier products of this group, this
one doesn't really stand out.
Everything is wrapped in the music by
Zixaq'a/Frequent - it is not a rumble,
but has a few beats???. There is quite
a few good effects in the demo, and
zero scenes. In general I can say:
good code, fair design (hard to
evaluate, there are going to be people
that will praise it, and some that
will evaluate it more harshly), the
music fits this particular design, and
of course the graphics and textures
fit in nicely. On scale from 1 to 5 I
give it a »BIG:»CL9:4»CL0:»SML:. Demo (the fixed version)
was tested on BlizzardPPC040/40 MHz,
64Mb. It works fluently only on AGA
chipset :(








»CL9:2. Spellbound »CL8:-»CL9: Loveboat.

»CL0:Loveboat style. Code by KennyStarr,
graphics by Cyclone and music by Jazz.
After watching this demo Jazz's music
was stuck in my head. It was very
heavy, done in his style. An
outstanding piece of music with
"talking" bass. The next thing I liked
best was Cyclone's graphics. I do not
think that there is a need to praise
his excellent work. And as for the
code. It is not bad but it isn't
breathtaking either. Quite pleasant
design. Many 2D effects alternating
with a shaded and raytraced vector
graphics appearing in a few different
variations (none is a killer though).
For my taste design, music and
graphics is better than the code. Demo
was tested on BlizzardPPC 040/40 MHz,
64MB. Runs only on AGA chipset. :-( 2D
effects fluently and 3d effects less.


   »PIC:Darklight.+EC_06.iff»













Grade: »CL9:»BIG:3»SML:
»CL9:3. Rain »CL8:- »CL9:The Black Lotus

»CL0:The Black Lotus? Yeees! They're alive.
Demo was made on 060 for 060. I don't
think rubber was too concerned that
someone might have a 040 ;). Main
code: RubberDuck, DigIt - help Scout,
graphics: Louie, music Carebear. The
design is superb. everything is well
synchronized with a fitting good
music. Graphics, textures on high
level. Luie applied himself to the
design. Code - good! One could even
say, that's very good! Why did this
demo win only the 3rd place? I have no
idea. I recommend to see this demo at
least on 040/40. It is great, that is
all. 2D effects, a few 3d - good
tunnels (2 I think), no scenes. It was
tested on BlizzardPPC 040/40MHz, 64MB.
Works only on AGA chipset. ;( -
average speed - but the quality of it
is outstanding. 060 recommended. ;)

Grade: »CL9:»BIG:5»SML:















4. I-Surf »CL8:-»CL9: Iris

»CL0:The fourth place and...... rightfully
. Code: Hastur, Tricktrax, misic
Nutman, Graphic: Unreal, Judas,
Matarazzo, Bandy, Thrym, Ransom. In my
opinion average Production. A couple
of great ( as always ) Unreal's
graphics, average code by pixeloz. I
didn't like the clip party. ;) Average
music. On the whole average - it's
not bad but it could be much better.
Worth of seeing. The tested demo on
BlizzardziePPC 040/40mhz, 64MB. Worked
only on AGA. :( - the speed was ok. -
pixelozis like 102. ;)
Grade: »CL9:»BIG:2»SML:

»CL0:I'm going to skip the 5th and 6th
place (there was only six productions)
»CL8:Now look on the grades. Personally
I'm really wondering why didn't
TheBlackLotus win. I think that if
Rain would have been created by any
other team ,it would also be given the
biggest number of points - the name of
the team doesn't suggest anything , I
wonder how the people on TheParty (and
not only on it ) vote? Don't they have
they individual taste. I'm writing
because that's not only my opinion.
After the party I asked my friends
what do they think about the products
and the scores.
All of them have said that Rain is the
best demo.... And it's only on the
Third position. What's happening with
the voters???? Does the production
,has to be shaking the monitor, to win
these days???? Looking on to TheParty
( and not only _ such a small
dysgression ) the sad reality looks
like that. I think that the scores
should look like that: Rain, Concrete,
Spellbound, I-Surf. Something about
ten Of my friends agreed to such a
succession - so why do the voters have
a different taste???? Who goes to the
party? A small observation on to the
topic of the graphic shown on
TheParty. Some ( you can count them on
one hand ) painted graphic - the rest
just PhotoShopped ones.







»CL0:A couple of words about the Party. I
always wanted to attend this meeting.
The best products, all the stage
fames. And how it is right now??
Now The Party is no longer organized
by the Silents, Anarchy, Lemon... Now
it's a commercial organization. How is
it in our country??? The people who
organise them are some normal Stage
people - the better or worse dialog
between the organizators and the
visitors exists. I think that abroad
it's completely different. Why do I
think so? On our party - you got late
with the Demo/intro before the dead
line - usually no problem. On the
western parties ? From that what you
can observe The organizators have you
somewhere (slightly saying
:Ass),they're not interested in that
your HDD id malfunctioning. If you're
late - fuck off. The most interesting
thing about the visitors of the
western parties agree with that!!! How
many times have you heard some western
stager complaining that his work is
missing in the gfx compo - it just got
lost - too bad. The diskettes failed?
Too bad. It is taken by them calmly -
for example - Maq'a's demo (The
Party'98). Little of that. Every year
I was thinking about going to the
party.
Couple of years ago if I had had
enough money I would go there without
thinking - At this moment finding some
money wouldn't be most difficult
but.... is it worth of spending such a
big amount of money? I was persuaded
by Frequent'a z Ephidreny for the
trip. I know him and Loaderror quite
good.
I'm sure it would be nice to meet
again etc. This is how the persuation
looks like.
I asked them how do they party during
all of the party days, and how does
the party look like. And it stoped
here. Frequent admitted that if he was
me - having to spend a lot of money to
go to such a party he also would need
to think a lot about it just like me.
I have a very curious character so I
started to ask him what did he mean by
saying such a party. I said to him
what would I except when going to
Denmark. The same as when going to
polish parties - having fun but with
people from the west. And that's where
I caught him. Frequent said that
something like that doesn't exist on
the Party!!!! He said that party
people just like us are only
Norwegians and couple of other ones.
Not bad huh? Only a couple of people
when the party is being visited by
thousands of people !!!!! - OK. - I
knew what I shouldn't expect - but
what should I expect?? The climate is
really wooden - I would meet thousands
of people sitting quietly in front of
their computers - just like back at
home, once in a while saying Hi to
each other. Sad isn't it?? No crazy
computer guys as far out as in Poland,
no hours spend on hating witch friends
from the stage by a bottle of beer -
so not much. He added that most of the
people comes just to see the compots.
Ehhhhh... Then I decided - I knew
ealier that the party looked like that
- but I was still delusive. Right now
I know that I would rather like to
spend the money ,meant for the trip,
for other things. But I didn't give up
to the very end - I want to go for the
Mekka. ;) One way or another dear
reader - be happy about your country
parties. (commercial break: foe
example. From the Satellite ;) If
you're be willing to fuck up a party ,
think about it twice and imagine that
you're fucking up The Party ;)))

Okkk.... now enough of philosophical
thinking: I'll get to the point.




Intro compo :

»CL9:1. Nonstop »CL8:- »CL9:Dual Crew Shining

»CL0:Intro Ok.!!! I remembered it best
after seeing all of the other ones.
What's so interesting about it ????
Well the design (Adam) was connected
to the music (Deetsay) and with the
code (Shape). The effects were easy but
brilliant and very well made For
example Karaoke. :) Intro tested on
BlizzardziePPC 040/40mhz, 64MB. Went
on the turned off AGA. :( - everything
was going smothly - well it has to. ;)

Grade : »CL9:»BIG:4»SML:»CL0: ( for the climate ;)



»CL9:2. Offbeat »CL8:-»CL9: Loveboat

»CL0:Loveboat has a lot of luck if it goes
about the wotes.... Taking the second
place in demo compo and in intro compo
is preety good. The intro is beautifle
, nice design , easy code...... worth
of seeing - but for sure it's not a
killer. The intro tested on
BlizzardziePPC 040/40mhz, 64MB. Works
only on AGA. :( - it workes smoothly.

Grade : »CL9:»BIG:2.5»SML:







»CL9:3. Impossible »CL8:- »CL9:Loonies

»CL0:The intro welcomes us with the sign
MC68060 code by Psycho, Blueberry. I
have to admit. 060 is realy recomended
. The intro is damnly cool. A great 3D
engine was included in the 34kb, A big
number of textures compute before the
intro, a good msx. Without any doubts
a 3D intro- but a very good 3D. Intro
tested on BlizzardziePPC 040/40mhz,
64MB.. Works only on AGA :( - it
works not to smoothly.







»CL9:4. Revision »CL8:- »CL9:Extreme

»CL0:The dear organizators of the party
skipepd the fourth compo (idiots), and
it's the place where the 4 clicker was
seen, and what 4 clicker!!! Exploder
has already shown what he can do - now
he teached them all by showing one of
the best 4 clicker (if not the best).
What does it represent??? Included in
the 4 clicker was a good code- a lot
of efects and some quite good music!
This intro really needs to be seen. A
far out - 4 clicker which should Be
called Fr out. Intro 4C tested on
BlizzardziePPC 040/40mhz, 64MB.It
works only on AGA. :( - works
smoothly.


»CL9:5. Temperamental »CL8:- »CL9:Focus Design

»CL0:New (at least I think so;) group...
(»CL6:DOH! - CTN») The intro isn't supper ,
but it's not horrible. Average
level.... intro generally average....
You can see it - it surely won't scare
you. Intro tested on BlizzardziePPC
040/40mhz, 64MB.. Works only on AGA.
:( - It works as it works.

»CL9:6. Dive "finalversion" »CL8:- »CL9:Nah-Kolor

»CL0:A pearl for the end. Intro known to
all "Dive" by the Nah-Kolor group with
the added sign "finalversion" - if it
would take a higher locate I would be
very suprised. In my opinion the
final version isn't different from the
non final version. But.... About the
intro - intro average - some people
like it and some don't.- average - it
depends on your taste. Intro tested on
BlizzardziePPC 040/40mhz, 64MB. Works
only on AGA. :( - works smoothly.
Generally I wrote a lot about the
productions - I only forgot to add -
Not enough of them!! Such a big party,
and only a couple of productions. :(
Too bad.

»CL8:Some words for the end about
ray-tracing kompo - I haven't seen
such shit for a long time. Even the
first place is bad!!! I am sorry
,together with Ubik, that we didn't
present anything through someone,
maybe we would have earned
something...

See the stuff from The Party and tell
me one thing. Did we catch up to the
west with the level of productions or
did the west fell back to our level? I
don't want to offend anyone - it's
good that our level of productions is
improving , and is getting stronger. I
mean that what I have already
mentioned - just look on the
productions from the last years....
"SAD BUT TRUE" - the level of The
Party was much better years later than
it is right now.

»CL7:         Madbart / Appendix 
»CL9:          [ Taboo Staff ]
»CL7:             29-01-2000

»CL6:         madbart@jormas.com 