»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------
 »CL9:»BIG: Trackmos - A Blast of the Past?
»CL8:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL4:           By Zerox/Gods

»CL0:In the last issue of the  »CL9:EuroChart»  I
read   a   really   well-written   and
interesting   article  concerning  the
absence  of  trackmos  these days.  It
was written by Alvin/Nah-Kolor.  I and
some   others   had   been  discussing
trackmos just a few weeks before I saw
that  article,  so  it was nice to see
others  that  also  were interested in
that  topic.  Instead of repeating the
things  Alvin wrote about, I'll rather
add some information.

When   the  first  known  demo  called
»CL9:Vectorcube»  hit  the  scene  in August
1986 it wasn't anything like a demo of
today.  It didn't include any graphics
nor  any  music.  It was just a simple
cube,  and  nothing  more.   The  real
demos  as  we  know them didn't appear
before   in  the  beginning  of  1989.
Well,  there  were many "demos" before
that  time also, but none deserving to
be  called  real demos anyway.  But in
late  1988  and in 1989 many megademos
began  to  get  released.   Anyway, it
wasn't before the year after the scene
got to know »CL9:trackloaders.»

The  first  ever  trackmo released was
the  legendary  »CL9:Mental  Hangover  demo»
back   in   1990!   It  was  the  most
important   demo  released  that  year
because  it introduced trackmos to the
scene,  but also because it had a long
introduction  part.  After the release
of  this demo, the period of megademos
were  over  as everybody tried to copy
this  new trend.  The creators of this
demo  were true scene legends; Slayer,
Reward  and  Uncle  Tom.  And in 1991,
everything were trackloaded!

The scene got to see some really great
demos;   like   »CL9:Hardwired»   by  TSL  &
Crionics,    »CL9:D.O.S.»    by   Andromeda,
»CL9:Odyssey»  by  Alcatraz  and  »CL9:Yoyage»  by
Razor  1911 which are still considered
to  be  among the best ones.  But also
ALOT  of  the other top demos the next
years were trackloaded (infact most of
them), like the ones Alvin wrote about
and   many   others;   Sequential   by
Andromeda, Extension by Pygmy Projects
and  9  Fingers  by Spaceballs just to
mention  a  few.   Of  course not only
demos   used  trackloaders,  but  also
musicdisks  and slideshows, and even a
few  diskmags.   It's true that Stolen
Data was trackloaded.  But I can't say
that RAW used a trackloader.  Not even
the  secret  "RAW"  mag  called Bull &
Bear.   But  a mag I know did, was the
one  from Manitou called The Almighty.
And  good  musicdisks  like  the first
ones ever from Phenomena back in 1990,
called  Music  Dream  I  and  II  used
trackloaders.  The same with the first
musicdisk  from  IRIS  the  same  year
called  Music  Disk  #1.   This  trend
continued  in full strenght until late
1993  I  guess.   When  the  A1200 got
launched in 1992, and most sceners had
it  in  late 1993/beginning of 1994 or
other   Amigas   with   harddisk,  the
trackmos started to loose ground.  But
the  next  years there were still many
trackmos,  but  now  the  majority  of
demos   were   executable   files  and
harddisk  installable.   The last good
trackmos   I  remember  were  Sanity's
»CL9:Roots  demo»  at  The  Party  4  or the
version  2.0 released in 1995.  And of
course  I  remember  the  »CL9:last trackmo»
from  Gods called »CL9:Future» which won the
competition  at  Party Zone III at the
summer   the   same  year.   That  was
probably  the last trackmo I've seen -
at least as I can remember.  So during
the  14  years  or  so  the  scene has
existed, trackloaders have only played
an important role 5 of these.

I   think   trackloaders  were  really
facinating  when they arrived 10 years
ago.  Instead of loading everything in
advance  as the previous demos/intros,
the  data  was  being read as the demo
went  on.  The success of trackloaders
can probably have something to do with
the  fact that the first trackmos ever
released  were  so  good.  The rest of
the scene just had to copy them.  Most
of the top groups back then mostly did
trackmos,        like       Crusaders,
Cryptoburners,    Sanity,   Animators,
Quartex,   Spaceballs,   Razor   1911,
Silents,   Kefrens,   Phenomena,  PMC,
Andromeda, and later Anarchy, Complex,
TRSI,  Melon  Dezign,  Virtual Dreams,
Lemon and more.

First   the   A500   was  the  machine
everyone  had to get, and most sceners
either  got the one with kickstart 1.2
or  1.3 and 0,5 or 1mb ram.  It didn't
have a harddrive as standard.  But the
A2000 which also got launched the same
year  (1987),  did  have  harddrive as
standard.   Unfortunately  it  was far
too  expensive  for most sceners as it
costed  around  2000 pounds back then,
while  the  A500  "only" costed around
600 pounds.  But with the AGA age, the
most  common amiga was the A1200.  And
most  sceners  got  a  harddrive  too.
This  opened »CL9:new opportunities» in demo
making,  combined  with  the growth in
modems,  boards  and rise of internet.
The   demos   didn't   have  the  same
limitations   as   before.    It   was
possible to make REAL big demos in the
past  also,  like  the  famous Odyssey
demo  from Alcatraz back in 1991.  But
it  was  hard  to  spread  a demo on 5
disks.    Odyssey  was  more  like  an
exception,  as  it was so good...  and
gave  us half an hour of entertainment
or  so.   But  most  demos were on one
disk  and  sometimes two, that was it!
So  it  was  impossible to include all
the   modules   you  wanted,  all  the
graphics  and  more.   I remember that
Mr.Man   of   Andromeda  had  to  make
different  versions  of  his module in
Sequential  just to make it all fit on
one  disk for instance.  When everyone
had  »CL9:harddisks»  this  was  no longer a
problem.   A  demo archive can be real
big  these days, a demo on 10mb is not
impossible  to  spread  at  all.  With
easy  access  to  internet and modems,
it's not a problem as in the past.

But  did the trackloaders have to fade
away    completely?     Are   they   a
phenomenon of the past as Alvin wrote?
Is  it  true  that todays coders can't
even  code a trackloader?  No, I don't
think  so.   It's  not  very  hard  to
create a trackloader so that's not the
answer.   The  answer is probably that
it's   impossible   to   compete  with
trackloaders these days.  And everyone
want »CL9:harddisk installable» productions.
Well,  you  can just dms pack them and
store   them  at  your  hardrive,  and
unpack  if you want to watch it again.
It's  not  that  hard.  And as for the
spreading,  that's no longer a problem
when we got internet.

Yes, I do remember the trackmos and it
would  be  great  to see one again.  I
hope  that  some  coders that are more
interested  in  making  something cool
and  special,  rather  than to release
his demo to win a prize at the biggest
parties,  soon will take the challenge
and make a trackmo. And please send me
a copy, will you?  ;)

Another  thing  which is becoming more
rare  these  days is of course the old
pixel  art,  as  Alvin  wrote about in
another article.  The PC and photoshop
got   a  strong  influence  on  todays
sceners.    A   32   coloured  low-res
picture   can't   compete   with   the
"photos",  but  they  sure reveal if a
graphician  is good or not.  Gods made
an  attempt  to  release  an old style
pixel-art  slideshow,  and some months
ago   we   actually  did  release  the
slideshow   »CL9:Divine».    So   it's   not
entirely hopeless Alvin.  Other trends
are  also changing the scene, but it's
called  development...   evolusion  if
you   will.   It  will  probably  only
create  better amiga productions.  But
of   course   we   also  remember  the
productions  and  persons  of the past
which deserve to be remembered...

»CL9:KEEP THE SCENE ALIVE AND KICKING!»

