»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
»CL8:  »BIG:Open Letter to TP7-organizers
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

»CL0:For the not so gifted of us sceners,
»CL1:The Official Eurochart» hereby brings
you a letter that a lot of the members
of the amigascene have already signed.
If you agree on this, you should send
your name and (email)-address to Azure
of Artwork, at  »CL1:azure@hamburg.roses.de»
If you haven't got e-mail, please find
one who has to send it for you »CL1:(these
words came from Azure -ed)». 
Letter follows on the next page.
And if any of you readers have
comments regarding the opinions in the
letter, you're of course welcome to
write an article about it to the next
Eurochart :-)

  »PIC:Shade4.iff»


















»CL8:Dear TP7 Organizers, 

we appreciate your effort of organizing the annual TP-series very much. We are
sure TP7 will be the highlight of this years amiga-demoscene, once again. But
this time we think, that parts of the competition rules are unfair, especially
to amiga users. 

The most annoying point is the competition machine. On the amiga side it is a
68030/50. On the PC side a Pentium 166. Even if a Pentium 166 isnt the
state-of-the-art on current PCs its still fast compared to the role of the
68030 in the amiga-family. The amiga hasnt advanced as much, as PCs did. But
there is still some improvement. More and more people are getting 68040 and
68060 accelerators. The Gathering and the Assembly already showed the way to
go - why don't you follow ? The role of the biggest Amiga-Party should not be
to set the lowest mark in competition machines. On 68030 you get only speed by
using bad programming habits, which can lead to demos not working on 68040 and
68060. Four out of the first five Amiga-Demos from TP6 didnt work properly on
040/060. 






















Another thing is the 4k-compo. Not that it is only a combined compo of amiga/pc
productions, you also cut down the pricemoney to a third compared to last year
and removed the possibility to use sound. We think, that especially in a 4k
competition there are huge differences in PC and Amiga intros. Assembler
instructions on amiga take up more space - also it takes for example several
100 bytes on amiga to get a screen displayed, while you can accomplish this on
a PC in a few bytes. Also the CPU speed is an issue. Combining the 4k-compo is
unfair to amiga users. The devastating dominance of Amiga 4k Intros at TP6 is a
result of very bad and rare PC 4k contributions. This might change this year...
Also we simply don't understand, why you think a 4k winner is only worth $200,
while winning one of the two(!) music competition gives $600. You give away
$1300 for the 4ch compo, while giving only $350 away for the 4k compo. Do you
think making a 4k Intro is easier and less time consuming, than to compose a
module ? It isn't - for sure. Programming a good 4k can take weeks. In our
opinion your spread of pricemoney in the compos is giving a wrong picture - and
it is unfair. And once again: Why is no sound allowed in 4k-intros ? Doing
sample precalculation in 4k isnt easy at all. It's a big challenge to coders.
It can not be compared to including sound in demos, where given formats,
routines and samples may be used. 





















All over all we would like to see these things changed, to make "The Party"
more fair and more representative for the amiga-scene. Please show us, that you
are still taking care of the amiga-scene byself - show us, that "The Party"
didnt turn into a party as commercial as several others.

regards, (»CL7:and this is where YOU get in the picture! -ed»)



          »PIC:AfMangelPaaBedre.iff» 