discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»THE D.I.S.C. AWARD«»
«»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»As written in the last issue of D.I.S.C, we'll hand over the prestiges
«c6»D.I.S.C. Award «c7»to a very special scener or special sceners in each issue
of D.I.S.C. And this time we're handing over our second award!«»
«»
To get the D.I.S.C. Award a certain scener has to have worked a very long
time to give other «c6»sceners pleasure «c7»out of his work. He got to have
produced some kind of «c6»quality productions over a certain period of
time and done something special for the amiga-community. «c7»To get the
D.I.S.C. Award this special scener also have had to influence the scene
in some way with his efforts to provide productions or contributions.
Everyone that have done something very special can get this honorable
award. He can for example have produced demos that have set new standards,
brought new ideas to the scene like setting up online scene-areas at
internet, showed stunning new pictures, composed amazing music, organised
very special scene events or made productions come true with a will to
never give up and a willingness to provide something fantastic or simply
given the scene «c6»something we all appreciate very much.«»
«»
«c7»To judge and decide who will get this «c6»prestiges and honorable award,
«c7»the main-team of D.I.S.C. consisting of «c6»Darkhawk
and Zerox «c7»will in each issue evaluate the work of a lot of sceners and
bring forth the results here in D.I.S.C.«»
«»
This time the jury has given the award to not only one scener, but two.
They have given contributions to the scene in form of productions and ideas
for many many years. Both joined the scene in the first half of the 90s,
but choose different artforms. One having «c6»music as a passion, «c7»and the other
«c6»pure mathematics and music. «c7»But they were united through their group and «c6»the art of
writing. «c7»None of them got especially famous because of neither music nor
code in the beginning, but because of a very special chartmag. The musician
has later on been known as the king of diskmag music, and the coder &
musician has participated in numberless productions. The reason why we have
chosen to give this prestigious award to these sceners, is that they have
«c6»succesfully continued the nice tradition with the EuroChart «c7»which they took
over from Static Bytes in 1996. During 5 years they released no less than 16
issues of this chartmag (5 in coop with IRIS though) and thereby making it the
only regular diskmag release. Both have been known to be a part of the crazy
Depth gang (one even being one of the founders). There can be no doubt
that the winners of the «c6»D.I.S.C. award «c7»of issue 12, are «c3»Curt Cool and Cytron!«»
«»
«c7»As they told us themselves in the very first issue of the EuroChart under
their command: «c6»"We do NOT intend to leave any stone unturned in the quest
to free your mind...". «c7»And they've certainly succeeded doing that with the
regular releases of the oldest chartmag in the scene.«»
«»
Congratulations goes to «c6»CURT COOL AND CYTRON «c7»for all the work they've done
for the scene. May them both stay active years to come even without doing
the EuroChart anymore! With this award they get only «c6»appreciation, pride
and honour... «»
«»
«c7»In the next issue of D.I.S.C. a new winner will be announced... «»
who knows... it might just be «c6»YOU!«»
«»
«e»
