discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»REVIEW: LAPSUUS / MATUREFURK«»
«»
«c1»By Dreyer/Spoon«»
«»
«»
«al»«c6»1st at Assembly 2001 (mixed Amiga/PC-compo)«»
«»
«c6»Reqs: '060, AGA, 16 MB RAM«»
«»
«as»«c7»Quite a surprise to se a completely «c6»new Amiga group «c7»winning this year's
Assembly, even in a mixed competition including both Amiga and PC demos.
Tempting to add: Quite a surprise to see a new Amiga group at all...«»
«»
«c6»Seen before?«»
«c7»However, if you take a look at what has been going on behind
the scene you'll find out that the group is not that new anyway. The crew
is infact the former «c6»Mellow Chips «c7»guys with some new, talended members and
a wish to show that the Amiga isn't quite dead (it's a paradox that rumours
say that this is their last demo...).«»
«»
«c6»Behind the scene«»
«c7»The guys formerly known as Mellow Chips, now know as Maturefurk, is said to
have formed a company called «c6»Future Mark «c7»("is said" because I'm really not
much into those PC companies). Try to switch the letters in the group name
around - you'll easily spot who's behind the demo. Future Mark has
recently made a game called «c6»Max Payne «c7»(which I've seen, and it looks very
cool).  Looking at a dir-listing of my demo directory the Maturefurk and
Mellow Chips is right beside eachother. Coincidence?«»
«»
«c6»A 3D-demo«»
«c7»If you know some of MC's works from the '90s «c6»(Dim, Divine, Dose, Rise)
«c7»you'll have no problem seeing that this is their 3D-engine in use. Maybe
not the same code, but a similar look. That is, pretty low-res, but fast
and antialiased, graphics that runs smoothly on an '060/50 MHz. The
graphics isn't as colorful as it was back in the MC-days, but the modelling
has improved allowing us to watch some really great and almost photo
realistic 3D-scenes as taken out of a fairytale. The realism, however, is
somewhat ruined by the low resolution, but the animation of the characters
and the scenes in general is smooth, which compensates for resulution.«»
«»
«c6»Seen before«»
«c7»I've been talking about the 3D in the demo, and there is an
explanation why I haven't mentioned the other effects: They aren't there.
The only 2D in the demo is the presentation of the demo, which are moving
letters on a black background. Sceners would probably be thinking about
«c6»Relic from Nerve Axis «c7»now, and there are many similarities: 3D-scenes
dominate the two demos. We get to see a city being blown of the face of
the Earth by a huge explosion. It seems to take place in an adventure
world (Relic having a quite realistic style, while Laapsus is more
«c6»fairytale-like; «c7»for instans the collapsing city looks a bit like something
from Star Wars Episode I), the two demos have a great soundtrack, and
finally they are both great entertainment.«»
«»
«c6»A great show«»
«c7»Lapsuus' greatest strength is the great modelling and animation. There's
no story in the demo (I guess MC tried to add a story to the demo Rise, but
they failed), just stand-alone scenes. Fine to me; if I wanted a story I'd
rather watch a movie anyway. When I watch a demo I just want eye candy and
great music.«»
«»
«c6»The soundtrack«»
«c7»And great music it is. Captain has composed an «c6»orchestral piece «c7»that fits
the demo very nicely.  It's timed to the visuals as it should be and is
technically of a high quality. Bombastic and quiet when it should be,
supporting the graphics perfectly. Still, writing about sound has always
been a bit odd I guess, you really should hear (and watch) this show
rather than read about it.«»
«»
«c6»The end«»
«c7»Therefore I will not go into details about the actual scenes in the demo.
They are so well made that you really should just watch and enjoy the show
yourself - this is a demo that «c6»you need to see, «c7»especially if you liked
Relic or the MC-demos in general.«»
«»
«e»
