discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«al»     NOISE FROM HEAVEN 3 REVIEW«»
«»«ac»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»Here's a short review of the chippack Noise From Heaven 3 by IRIS.«»
«»
«al»Released: «c6»08/01/2002«»
«c7»Requirements: «c6»AGA«»
«»
«as»
«c7»Noise From Heaven is a «c6»chippack «c7»which first came to our attention last
year. It's being compiled by the oldskool scener «c6»Dascon of IRIS, «c7»and so far
3 issues have reached us.«»
«»
«c6»Noise From Heaven 3 «c7»starts off with a cool loader tune and with the name "IRIS"
rolling over the screen from left to right first, and it's being followed by
"presents". Then a rather old but cool thing appears. The words «c6»Noise From Heaven are being
written «c7»while we're watching. Afterwards we enter the menu.«»
«»
In the menu, there's a «c6»box on upper left «c7»of the screen with text. This is
where you have to scroll and decide which chip-tune you want to hear or
article you want to read. At the «c6»bottom of the screen, «c7»in the right corner,
there are 4 options to choose between also. You can either choose modules,
articles, info or guest composers. When you've made your choice, you can
again choose which modules or articles at the box in the upper left of the
screen. In the middle of the screen, from the bottom of the left corner to
the upper right corner, there's a «c6»scrolltext «c7»dividing it. Here you will be
able to read some text Dascon has written. All in all, quite a cool and
traditional chippack setup.«»
In this issue, if you press on modules, you will be able to choose between
«c6»10 chipmods from Dascon «c7»himself. 7 of those are rather new, and 3 quite
old. Personally I like the oldies, but goodies best. Especially Brainfood 6
and 23 are very good and got this cool sound. I don't exactly know why I
prefer these old ones but it has probably something do with me getting old
and nostalgic. When it comes to Dascons newer chippies, then I guess
Illusions are one of my favourites because of the introduction. In any
case, Dascon is certainly one of the few that still manages to create good
chiptunes.«»
If you press on «c6»guest composers, «c7»you will have 11 modules to choose between
in this issue. They have been created by «c6»Skope/Up Rough, Zito/100% &
Darkage, Ed/RTI, Curt Cool/Depth and The Hooligan/DCS. «c7»The chipmodules
these guys present offer quite much variation. There are some good modules, but also a
few not so good. One of my favourites is «c6»Xmas Caroline the nude «c7»by Curt
Cool. Another enjoyable chippy is «c6»Lazarus groovebox «c7»from Skope. And then I
also have to mention THGs version of the «c6»Great Giana Sisters «c7»theme. It's
really cool, and some great memories appear from my time playing that game
together with friends a real LOOOOOOONG time ago. In any case, there should
be enough modules in Noise in Heaven 3 for everyones taste I guess.«»
«»
«c6»Noise In Heaven «c7»also have a nice feature for those that want to know more
about the modules. If you press on «c6»Info «c7»while playing a chipmod, some
additional info about duration etc. will appear.«»
«»
Last I also have to add that there are a few «c6»articles «c7»included into Noise
From Heaven. This time there were an interview with THG and an article
about some music matters for example and more.«»
«»
As a bonus there's also added a module to be used in the «c6»trackerschool «c7»of
Dascon.«»
«»
All in all, Noise From Heaven 3 is quite enjoyable and probably the «c6»best
chippack «c7»these days along with Save Da Vinyl from Mawi. To read more about
chippacks, then go to the chipattack article. And a small hint...  try
pressing on «c6»ATTACK «c7»in the headline of that article.«»
«»
As a conclusion, NFH is a pack we expect much more from in the future. And
if I'm not much mistaken another issue should be out at the end of February
or in March. Watch out for it...   All issues of this chippack you can get
by visiting the IRIS homepage at: «c6»www.irishq.dk«»
«»
«e»
