discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»MEKKA/SYMPOSIUM 2001 REPORT«»
«»
«c1»«ac»By Darkhawk/IRIS«»
«»
«c7»«as»I must have written more «c6»partyreports
«c7»than any other scener ever, over all
these long years. And each time I have
been to the MS, I have dutifully
written one. Since the facilities have
also been the same for each year (that 
is, for 5 years) from the partyhall
and right down to the same German
'wurstbude' with the same old people
selling wienerwursts, I feel it gets
somewhat «c6»repetitive writting MS
reviews. «c7»Last year, I wrote that the
MS was business as usual, and with
that in mind, I can't even write that
this time. But ok, let's have a quick
review then, only skirting the
facilities and not going into too many
details regarding my beer consumption.«» 
«»
The place was the «c6»Heidmarkshalle
between Hamburg and Hannover. «c7»This
year, the place was quite crammed, and
people had trouble getting a seat and
space for their computers. The number
of attenders has always been slowly
growing, but I think that if there's
just one more scener attending next
year, the hall will likely burst, so
maybe it is about time to «c6»find another
place, «c7»although Steeler, the
mainorganizer, seems to think that
this will be quite hard. In any case,
it was cozy being that many, and
knowing that most of the attenders, as
usual, are «c6»quite serious sceners, «c7»in
some way or other. Although I heard
one could see more games beeing played
than usual on the MS, I myself saw
only two computers running games on
the party. Hrmm, maybe that's because
I did not watch computers that much,
being outside boozing mostly, or
forcing poor «c6»Ransom «c7»to code and finish
or demo. In any case, the MS appeared
as serious as usual with people
working and talking, usually with a
beer in hand. Yes, «c6»although beers and
drugs are nominally not allowed, «c7»there
was even less complaining about people
dragging beers inside than in the last
years, which was good, because the
weather was not all that accomodating
as usual, meaning it was cold and it
rained now and then. Well, we tried
building small fires outside and
sitting close to them while boozing
and talking about things as diverse as
the scene and down to who could booze
the most. Uhm, not that the MS is
about that, or rather, the «c6»MS is about
socializing with other sceners, «c7»and
since there are so many sceners
attending, all with the same purpose,
it always gets to be a memorable and
pleasant event. This year «c6»Adonis/IRIS
«c7»even managed to get dragged to
hospital after being picked up by the
police, something he is rightly proud
of. Also, last year we all felt that
the security guys were too aggressive
and disruptive, since they had hired
common security guards. This year,
there was «c6»no problems with security,
«c7»they were nice and tolerant people,
who knew when to act and when not to.
I don't know if they were the same or
not, but they managed much better this
year, which was nice.«» 
«»
On a side note, the organizers who
were in charge of the entrance were
really way too gullible this year it
seems. «c6»Tundrah and THG «c7»managed to get
a 50% discount in their entrancefee,
because they claimed an organizer had
offered them free tickets.. Tsk, tsk,
now who would trust the, not-quite
angelfaces of these two rowdy finns?«»
«»
At some other MS's, mega «c6»drunk Germans 
«c7»have made some people feel
uncomfortable, but in the latter
years, it seems that the MS has just
gotten better and better in this
regad, people having fun and yes,
boozing their brains out, but without
behaving in any threatening or
disruptive manner, usually. It is
always funny seeing the poor sods
lying unconscious amidst hundreds of
beerbottles near the big screen, heh.
This year, there was one incident I
personally saw however. Some «c6»braindead
polish person «c7»was behaving in an
aggressive manner, wanting to provoke
people to a fight. It was really
pathetic looking, how he pushed to
people to get into a fight. I only
thought it was in set up movies people
could behave that childish. At some
point he launched some portable grill
at somebodys head, and that looked
quite violent, however the victim
didn't get hurt much, and this guy's
friends made him stand off. Some time
after that some organizers came to
survey the scene, but the lamebrain
was gone by then. I don't hope it was
some Amiga scener being that blown in
the head, but I don't know who it was.
Ahh well, «c6»these incidents are rare «c7»at
MS, luckily.«» 
«»
As for the «c6»entertainment, Welle:
Erdball, «c7»a German techno style band
played, like they did the last 2 years
(or only once? Can't remember now),
and they are quite good, and managed
to get a lot of people up and shaking
their heads. Damn, my neck was quite
wasted the day after. There was also a
«c6»'who wants to be a scenionaire' «c7»quiz,
with scenish questions, mostly C64,
and not that much fun after the first
run, but ok, hard getting new ideas
all the time. As for entertainment,
there was one thing that was really
lacking this year. No lionfeeding! No
grinning organizers throwing hardware,
software, t-shirts, etc., out to a
raving mass of people. That's really a
shame, as that was madly enjoyable.
But I guess they have finally run out
of things to throw out, sadly.«» 
«»
«c6»Competitions... «c7»I won't talk about the
various entries, we have made a rather
big and exhaustive review of the
productions released at MS for this
issue, go check that. However, I must
remark that entries seemed to get lost
or get misplaced quite a lot by the
democrew. I delivered some things for
various people myself, one pciture was
not shown, one picture was shown in
the wrong compo, and one DEMO was not
registered. Luckily I asked the
democrew if they had our 2 demos 5
hours after I delivered them, just
before the competition. And to my big
astonishment they had managed to
somehow displace «c6»'Welcome to our World
2', «c7»one of our demos. Now this is
really bad, and I talked with one of
the people responsible, but he told me
he couldn't do anything, etc., the
usual you get. However, I told this to
the 2 coders and they ran down to the
same persons and managed to squeeze
the demo in after all. Sadly, seeing
how many entries they managed to fuck
up of those that I delivered, at
various times, I must conclude that I
must be really «c6»negative in my report 
here, «c7»which is the first time in 5
years really.. This is TP's style,
that it happened at the MS is very
sad, and I hope this was the only
time.«»
«»
Otherwise.. Well, I think I have
covered most of it. «c6»The MS 2001 was
overall, a cool party, «c7»like we're used
to, with a lot of sceners attending
and having fun together. This is the
party you must not miss, no matter
what. If you only attend one party a
year, there's no doubt that it has to
be this one. I have written that
before, and I write so again now.
There is no alternative in that scale,
or with this level of coziness. also,
the «c6»MS is the highlight in regards to
releases the whole year, «c7»this time
with a whopping 20 Amiga demos. I just
hope we can all be in the hall the
next year, if the weather gets too bad
for being outside, heh.«»
«»
«e»
