discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»APOCALYPSE3 PARTYREPORT«»
«»
«c2»«ac» By Lahve/Scoopex+Reason«»
«»
«c7»«as»After  previous  fail  due  to a party date which has been set a few days
after  «c6»Mekka&Symposium,  «c7»we decided to set a date of «c6»Apocalypse3 «c7»later, just
like  first Apocalypse was:  september.  We learned from all mistakes we did
before and this party seemed to be better than last time.«»
«»
   As always, we was in hurry a week before partying, getting some money for
t-shirts,  other  prizes, projector, tickets etc.  Unfortunately, we counted
on  a  big amount of visitors this time, but later we noticed there won't be
so  many  attenders we thought before, because polish sceners made their own
party  named  «c6»Symphony  «c7»in  the very same date as Apocalypse was planned, it
meant there were no foreigners enjoying our party.«»
«»
   There  was nothing special during a preparation at the «c6»partyplace «c7»for us,
an  organizers.   We  mounted  projector,  run the ticket program, moved the
tables  and  waited for first visitors, because there are always someone who
arrives  evening  before  an official party day to booze with organizers and
discuss  with them until partyplace is still almost empty.  It is always the
last  moment  when we can calm down and relax before that chaos at the party
day.   Those  evenings  rocks  for  us  as  organizers,  on  the other side,
attenders prefer that day after.  Nothing special ;).«»
«»
   We  woke  up  on Saturday morning fixing some things before «c6»first visitors
«c7»will  come.   The  hall started to fill up after 10:00, but we still counted
with  more  visitors  coming  to enjoy here.  Our «c6»pub «c7»was almost fill during
afternoon,  people  placed  their  «c6»Amigas «c7»and we enjoyed the last moments of
relaxing.   «c6»Compos  «c7»started  around  17:00  when  all people arrived and all
visitors  impatiently  expect some performance on the screen.  We decided to
show  the  best  of  latest  parties  for getting people hot ;) and we chose
«c6»Lapsuus  by  Mature  Furk.   «c7»It  was  the only demo which people rewarded by
handsclapping  and  crying  loudly.   It  was  simply  big  success and also
surprise  for  the  people.   Who  can expect so perfect demo for Amiga when
people says it's almost dead computer?«»
«»
   Demos  are  always  starting  engine  for real party feeling and it works
always  ;).  After a few demos presentation, «c6»real compo «c7»started. «c6»ASCII, 4ch
mods, mch mods, pixel...  «c7»you know that.  Unfortunately, there were no demos
or intros here, but I think people enjoyed anyway.«»
«»
   Next  day  we originally wanted to do a «c6»prizegiving, «c7»but many people left
before  we  realized  it.   However,  compos have been won mainly by foreign
sceners  which supported us sending their works via e-mail before the party,
so  we  promised  to send a «c6»prize by snail-way.  «c7»Hopefully, all winners have
got their prize sent from me.«»
   We  learned  again  from another mistakes done during this party:  saving
more money.  Since we started to do our «c6»Apocalypse parties, «c7»we always had to
pay some money from our own pockets to pay out all debts we had or find some
sponsor.   Nobody thinks about price raising because people couldn't pay for
that  so  much  (although  Apocalypse has the lowest entrance fee around the
Europe, people get used to that and they simply don't care to pay more.  But
it's all our organizing problem.«»
«»
   We  get  used  to  have  some foreigners at our party, but unfortunately,
there  are  more  prestige  parties around the Europe.  But who knows? Maybe
people will try to check our small «c6»old-skool party «c7»some day?«»
«»
«e»
