discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»TRSAC III PARTY REPORT«»
«»
«c1»«ac»By Darkhawk/IRIS«»
«»
«c7»«as»This is harder to type than one should 
assume.. Well, my monitor is really 
tricky.. But, I won't let this small 
matter stand between me and a report 
from the «c6»TRSAC autumn party «c7»in 
Copenhagen, Denmark.. No monitor that 
keeps flickering and needs to get a 
good thumping every 30 seconds to 
work, will stand between me and 
writing this party report, I assure 
you.. «»
«»
So, let's see. The TRSAC party is held
in some «c6»local sportshall in Amager, 
the 12-14th October.. «c7»There's plenty 
of space here, although there're a bit 
over «c6»100 attenders «c7»now I think. Most 
are PC users, but there are Amiga 
users too, although most of these 
don't seem to have brought any 
computer with them, prefering to booze 
instead. There're people from many
countries here, «c6»Switzerland, Germany, 
Norway, Sweden and Denmark «c7»it seems.. 
As for the interesting people, that 
is, Amiga sceners, well I can almost
list them all.. From Norway, I've seen 
«c6»Arcane/HJB, Leia/Sqs, Loaderror and
Frequent from Ephidrena. «c7»There're
probably more than those though. From 
Sweden, we have «c6»Tuna/Sublime and 
Kalms+Emoon from TBL. «c7»I think, haven't
seen the last two around, but they
should be here.Ahh, and «c6»Spot from Up 
Rough «c7»just came by.. From Germany, we 
have «c6»Scicco and Sniper of Scarab, «c7»and 
from Denmark, we have the most 
sceners, naturally. «c7»Loonies «c7»are here 
with 6 or 7 members, and we're here 
with the same amount. «c7»Depth «c7»are here
with Ib, Curt Cool, Cytron and some 
hangarounds, hehe. Then there's Optima
from «c6»Haujobb «c7»and Corial from Focus 
Design (well, they brought 2 PC's and 
one Amiga, tsk, tsk, shame on them). 
This might not sound like many 
sceners, and ohh well, that's true. 
Otherwise, there's a lot of PC users I 
don't know, and some other Amiga users 
I might have missed so far.«»
«»
«c6»Facilities.. «c7»The toilets are nice,
although there's not much paper
to go around. Ahh well, who needs
that, atleast there's soap. The hall
itself is fine, quite big. I do prefer
smaller, cosier places, like the
hall at «c6»TRSAC «c7»last year, but ohh well.
There's also a separate sleepinghall,
but daaaamn.. The speakers they have
are quite loud, I was reminded of the
time at TP where I slept next to the
rave-party, ehehe.. Friday evening
there was only the opening ceremony,
aswell as some DJ playing quite
boring, repetitive techno for far too
long. Well, I like techno, but this
was kinda' boring. Afterwards we got
some demos shown, not that many,
before the PC users apparently took
over the machines, and proceeded to
show PC demos for 4-5 hours, aghhh..
So I went to bed after the first few
demos, but I had to listen to all
kinds of ripped MP3's from the
commercial music industry, featured in
those PC demos, since.. Well, they
played kinda' loud. Ahh, no problem,
and I slept ok. Didn't get enough
beers into my stomach though, so a
slow party start. Today «c6»Nutman, «c7»that
lazy bastard, finally arrived with me
monitor, so I can actually do some
article work, heh.. After the
competitions, I'm going to hold an
A500 demoshow, and you can bet your
money on me showing demos for 4-5
hours straight, hehe.«»
They have a «c6»cafeteria «c7»here, but it's
kinda' lousy, so we're just getting
our food outside of the place.. Food
and beers.. «c6»Beers «c7»are important here.
Of course drinking is allowed, as it
should be on every party, both inside
and outside of the hall, and this
we're taking advantage of, naturally.
As for food, we drive around a bit in
Copenhagen, and find what we fancy,
can't complain of those food
facilities, heheh.«»
«»
Well, it's now saturday.. «c6»The party
opened this friday, at 17.00 hours, a
bit late, considering that it ends at
12.00 this sunday, «c7»but well, we'll
just have to booze a lot to make up
for it. Hmm yes, actually some of us
ARE working on our productions, we had
an intro we'd have liked to finish,
but alas, this doesn't seem to be
possible, so now «c6»Ransom «c7»has given up,
and is boozing a lot to make up for
yesterday, hehe. It seems that people
arriving saturday instead of friday
don't have to pay tho', which I think
is a bit weird, and I'd imagine that
people who have payed, would be a bit
irritated by this, but ok, maybe their
internal security just isn't very
good, heh.«»
«»
A word about the «c6»compos.. «c7»There were
the usual «c6»music compos, 4chn,
multichannel and mp3, «c7»and there was
only a little trouble for the
organizers there. hmm, some of the
organizers are way more stressed than
they have a right to be, and this
makes for a somewhat wrong contact
with the attenders, it's a bit hard
talking to a stressed looking
organizers, whose eyes are darting
back and forth, hehe. But well, these
compo's and the others ran well
enough, although the organizers once 
AGAIN managed not to included one of
our pictures into the «c6»gfx compo.. «c7»No
harm done really, as it was just
something «c6»Dr. Doom «c7»had drawn during 30
seconds of boredom, but if it had been
a 'real' picture, it would have been
quite disastrous.«»
«»
There was a «c6»handdrawn gfx compo, «c7»which
was kinda' original, they showed
scannings of some people's paper
artwork, and the style was quite
different, naturally. The «c6»other gfx
compo's «c7»were so-so. Many PC owners had
stuff in the competitions it seemed.
As for «c6»PC demo/intro, «c7»I can't say
anything naturally, didn't view them,
was busy carting «c6»Dr. Doom «c7»around in a
shopping cart inside the hall. The
Amiga oldskool competition was won by
the Spaceballs demo, which filled one
disk and ran on my A500 (the
organizers sem not to have access to
an «c6»A500 «c7»themselves, so I'm lending it
to them at each TRSAC). Well, there
was no other entry in this competition
sadly, would have liked this
competition to have had the most
entries, but ok, good that «c6»SPB «c7»atleast
are doing this kind of thing. I know
we should have too, but ehrr, we
didn't finish anything in that regard.«»
«»
As for the «c6»demo competition, «c7»there was
a healthy amount of demos, although
some weren't that spectacular, of
course. The winner from «c6»TBL/Up Rough
«c7»is quite design heavy, it has a lot of
style and a really good soundtrack.
But I think I might do a separate
production review, so I better not
write about the releases. You can get
them via the internet in any case, and
you should view them all yourself,
naturally.«»
«»
One production deserves special
mention tho', and that's the «c6»PSX2 demo
by Soopadoopah «c7»(well, behind that name
are some people from Fudge, the danish
PC crew). This is the first
multieffect 'demo' for the PSX2, and
it looks quite nice, and has a
wonderful odlskool style, in the way
it was made. I was quite impressed,
and maybe there's a lot of potential
in establishing a PSX2 scene. We're
trying to get our first PSX2 release
ready for the MS or even later. But
nods of respect to Soopadoopah.«»
«»
After the compo's ended, at around 2'
o-clock, we were rather drunk, «c6»Ransom
and Dr. Doom «c7»had tried to get enlisted
into the wild-compo, and had done what
is called a spontaneous aesthetic
performance. Or in other words, they
did something very lame, that only
drunk people would do, heheh.. Ransom
had Dr. Doom in this shopping cart,
and in front of the bigscreen, he
spinned the cart round and round. The
intention was that Dr. Doom would
begin to puke at some time, and then
he had to hit the bigscreen.. Ahemm,
this ended when «c6»Leia «c7»interfered and
the cart with poor Dr. Doom crashed
into the loudspeaker.. Well, it wasn't
as dramatic as it sounds.. I guess..«»
«»
Anyway, at this point, 7 IRIS'ers
eagerly (?) awaited my «c6»A500 demoshow,
«c7»but NOOO.. The organizers then thought
it would be interesting to show the
boxingmatch between Tyson and ehr..
Brian Nielsen, some danish lamer,
since that happened just some hours
ago, and many danes probably were
interested in it.. Well, that was
quite boring, but atleast we got to 
shout a lot and make fun of it.. Hrmm, 
maybe some sportsenthusiasts thought we
were irritated, but ohh well.. After
that finished, it was around 04.00,
which wasn't really good.. Dr. Doom
lay sleeping under the table, after he
had done to the WC what he couldn't do
to the bigscreen, «c6»TrickTrax «c7»had left
for home, «c6»Ransom «c7»was sleeping in the
sleeping hall and «c6»Nutman «c7»was playing
Simon the Sorcerer.. Arghh.. It was
time to take action, so the A500
«c6»demoshow «c7»began. At its height, I think
5 people watched it, hehe. After some
demos, all the organizers went to bed,
and told me to turn down the volume,
now that THEY had to sleep.. Ohh well,
I continued the demosession.. Seemed
to me like some people further down
where watching now and then, others
were just playing UT or something.
Then Shadow went to bed, Nutman
finished Simon the Sorcerer and «c6»Flower
«c7»started to fall asleep, and had to
hurry home.. Sigh, I was left alone,
alone with all the memories.. Sniff..
And then my fave demo, «c6»Enigma by
Phenomena «c7»had errors on the disk, so
that the music fucked up.. I decided
it was time to call it quits.. At that
time I was the only one alive in the
hall, that was around 07.00 I guess.«»
«»
I was lovingly awakened by two
grinning IRIS'ers, Ransom and Dr.
Doom, who had put his hair to good
use, tickling my nose until I woke up,
and by then it was around 12 I
think. The organizers were a bit
delayed with the «c6»prizecompo, «c7»and it
still took one hour or so before the
annual «c6»duck-dealing «c7»was finished. We
managed to get ourselves 3 silver
ducks. 1 for Dr. Doom's 2nd place in
the 4chn compo, one for our 2nd place
in the intro compo (yes well, we made
a 5 minute intro, and Loonies did the
same. Their intro featured 3D, so
naturally they had to win, HRRMMFF).
We also managed to snatch a third
duck, that came flying through the
air.. Tadaa.. 3 ducks for us,
including one the organizers painted
black, supposedly because we did such
a rushed intro.. But hey, Loonies
didn't get their intro duck painted
black, and we really did try to
release something, so «c6»that wasn't
really very friendly.. «c7»Although the
black paint on the duck looks kinda'
cool, hehe.«»
Ohh, a word about «c6»voting «c7»too. You gave
the organizers your nametag (which you
got when you payed the entrancefee),
and then you got a votesheet. Fair
enough. And then a lot of.. Ahemm,
morally susepct people began going
around, telling us that they'd vote
for our stuff, if we voted for theirs,
and that all their friends would do
the same if we also did the same..
Hrmm hrmm, one of those persons even
told me that 'hey, you care jackshit
about PC stuff right? And I care
jackshit about Amiga stuff, so why
shouldn't we just help eachother out
with some votes?'.. Grr, that's quite
lame (not that I didn't agree to it,
after all, our intro just had to win
over the Loonies entry, but no, as
usual, they managed to votefake
better than I), and he wasn't the only
one doing stuff like that. As
TrickTrax remarked, stuff like that
«c6»kills the competition, kills the will
to do productions, «c7»if you loose over
an obviously inferior product, just
because some people have been
creative with votemanipulating/faking.
Especially on small parties, this can
get to be a problem.«»
«»
But ohh well, we got out ducks, we
packed, we said goodbye, and then we
prepared to drive home. In the train I
realized that I would miss both Buffy
and Angel on TV that day, and went
berserk. I awoke in hospital, deeply
traumatized, and that concluded my
«c6»TRSAC trip. «c7»Overall, it was a fine 
party, and I'll be there next time
too, unless this means missing an
episode of Buffy or Angel once again,
naturally..«»
«»
«e»
