discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»THE MAKING OF KING OF FUCK«»
«»
«c1»By Slummy/Spaceballs and Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«as»«c7»You were perhaps shocked when you noticed that the 4k intro called «c6»King Of Fuck «c7»was
created by the two famous norwegian self-declared rival teams, «c6»Ephidrena and
Spaceballs «c7»in cooperation. But for those that don't really know, the
competition between the groups is quite friendly. Spaceballs usually wins
all the competitions in Norway (like the Gathering and Kindergarden
parties), but Ephidrena makes the best impression at the foreign parties.  
In any case, the groups decided to «c6»unite their power «c7»to beat the PC intros
at the Assembly party. «c6»Slummy/Spaceballs «c7»coded some effects, while
«c6»Loaderror/Ephidrena «c7»coded a musicsystem and composed some music. The
result: King Of Fuck. The intro which isn't even 4k came second in the
competition at the Assembly party, only beaten by another great 4k intro.
That was Humus2 by Exploder. Read the review elsewhere in D.I.S.C. It's at
least certain that Slummy and Loaderror achieved their goals by smashing
all the PC intros.«»
«»
Now lets hear what «c6»Slummy «c7»tells about the making of «c6»King Of Fuck.«»
«»
«c7»"I travelled together with Ephidrena to MekkaSymposium 2001 and on the 
ferry from Sweden to Germany I came up with the idea of a «c6»4k-cooperation
«c7»where Loaderror would make the music using his «c6»soundsystem «c7»and I would code
the «c6»effects. «c7»Originally we planned to just throw something together at
Mekka, but as Loaderror was working his ass of with their demo and I was
rolling around in garbage most of the time, the project was postponed.
After that nothing happened untill Loaderror and I had some beers together
in Oslo in July and decided that it'd be fun to release it at Assembly and
«c6»kick some pc-ass in the combined compo. «c7»Loaderror started on the music, and
one week before assembly I received the finished music and discovered that
I didn't have a clue about what kind of effects to put in the intro.
"Normal" work combined with a total lack of inspiration made progress slow
during the next days, but finally I had a «c6»z-buffered sphere-mapper «c7»and a
sizeoptimized version of my «c6»radialblur-routine. «c7»Two days before the
deadline I started to link everything together and also included a «c6»rotzoom
«c7»and a small «c6»fractalgenerator. «c7»These four routines were then combined in all
possible ways for the different parts. For a while it seemed like I wasn't
going to get it finished in time, but thanks to flexible organizers (and
drunk sceners like Leia, Arcane and Loaderror who phoned me up from Finland
in the middle of the night shouting gibberish) everything worked out in the
end.".«»
«»
And there you have it, «c6»a cool 4k intro. «c7»If you haven't seen it already,
I'm sure you can download it from the «c6»Spaceballs homepage!«»
«»
«e»
