discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»DARKFALL FANTASIES«»
«»
«al»«c1»   Information collected by Zerox«»
«»
«»
«ac»
«c5»INTRODUCTION«»
«»
«as»«c7»From the beginning of the 90s until today, Amiga sceners have been very
attractive for the game industry. And during all these years quite many
sceners have joined «c6»game companies. «c7»But not that many have actually
created an entire game company by themselves. Anyway, «c6»Razorwax AS «c7»was
founded in July 2000 by «c6»Claus Grovdal (Producer/Lead Design), Ricki Sickenger
(Lead Programming:tools/game logic programming) and Kjetil Helland (Lead
Programming:3D engine programming). «c7»One of the
original persons behind Darkfall, is also «c6»Bj0rn Tore 0ren (Lead World
Developer). «c7»In addition «c6»Erik Sperling Johansen «c7»joined the team fulltime
as a server programmer, and «c6»Henning Ludvigsen «c7»joined part time as art
director. Out of these persons, some sceners will probably notice that
Ricki Sickenger was a member of «c6»Gods «c7»many years ago, and was actually the
man behind a couple of the «c6»D.I.S.C intros «c7»(for issue 9 and 10). Back then
he went under the handle Zendar. And Henning Ludvigsen is better known as
Bridgeclaw/Gods. In any case, these people (sceners and non-sceners) started
their own company because they wanted to be in total creative control, and
develop games that they wanted to play themselves. This is not strange when
thinking that all the team members are old gamefreaks. The Razorwax team
wanted to play online games, and therefore they had a vision to create
«c6»"amazingly addictive online roleplaying games, using a 100% inhouse developed
3D/client, server and tools technology ", «c7»they tell us.«»
«»
In a press release the third of August 2001, it was announced that the
first game this new team are working on, is called «c6»Darkfall. «c7»A name which was
a result of a short brainstorm session. The game it's scheduled to be released
the first quarter of 2003, but the idea of the game was born already 6
years ago. Darkfall is being described as a massively multiplayer online
roleplaying game «c6»(MMORPG).«»
«»
«ac»«c5»THE DARKFALL«»
«»
«as»«c7»In the middle of an otherwise featureless plain, stood a lone, black
tower. The tribe, which crossed these plains every spring, had never seen such a
structure this far north before. And they didn't understand how it could have been
built during the winter, a season in which no tribesman, and certainly no house-dwelling
southerner, would defy the freezing snows of the plains. Four scouting warriors,
the strongest and bravest men of the Ice Bear tribe, rode closer, and one of their
number pointed to the dark building in front of them. "Look. The tower has no
windows on its southern wall, and no door either.". The others saw this also, and
they noticed that, as they approached the tower, they seemed to leave the morning sun
behind them.  But the four riders were brave men, and they rode on in silence.
On a snow-covered ridge overlooking the plain, the men of the Ice Bear tribe saw four
riders disappear into a growing, twilight shadow. They exchanged glances, but none dared
utter a word, and no voice broke the silence as the shadow made a sudden, violent charge
- like northern lights dancing - and engulfed them. Time passed and still the men
of the Ice Bear tribe stood transfixed in the sickly, yellow light. At first, they
wanted to turn from the stare of the dark tower, but they couldn't find the strength
to move, and slowly the tower and its shadow grew less frightening to their eyes. 
None stirred until the four warriors returned. They were pale like the snow
itself now, their eyes were black like the tower behind them, and one of their number
spoke. "It is safe now. The Watcher calls, and we must come closer."«»
«ac»«c5»WHAT IS IT ALL ABOUT?«»
«»
«as»«c7»As written above, «c6»Darkfall «c7»is described as a «c6»next generation online roleplaying game, «c7»as it
was inspired by the pioneers of online roleplaying games, such as Ultima Online,
Everquest and Asherons Call, but has advanced features and technology that is
never before seen in online games according to the makers.«»
«»
The Darkfall setting is «c6»traditional high-fantasy, «c7»with elves, dragons,
spells and magical items. Unlike other MMORPGs that have already been
released, Darkfall is highly geared towards player vs. player combat,
and especially towards «c6»racial warfare and territorial conquest, «c7»the
creators tell us.«»
«»
«c6»Darkfall «c7»has all the features of its predecessors, meaning hundreds of combat
skills/trade skills, hundreds of spells, hundreds of different monsters to kill,
hundreds of dungeons, more magical items than you can shake a battleaxe at,
vast wilderness, player owned houses and castles, and everything you expect
from an online roleplaying game. Darkfall is highly geared towards player vs.
player combat, and especially towards racial wars and player-run clans conquering
city states owned by other player-run clans, as mentioned.«»
«»
«c6»Darkfall «c7»has six different main character races: «c6»Elves, Dwarves, Humans,
Mahirim, Orks and Alfar. «c7»Each race has different political standings with the
other races. The Elves are at peace with Dwarves and Humans, but are wary of
Mahirim, and are at war with the Orks. Everyone hates the Alfar, and the Alfar
hate everyone. In effect this means that Elven players may travel to Dwarven
and Human cities without having any problems with the city guards, and may buy
and sell in stores. If an Elven player traveled to an Orkish city, he would be
killed on sight, both by city guards and other players. In Alfar cities,
everyone gets killed anyway. All races will operate in a rather dark world.
Whether it's on land or at underwater areas is up to the player to decide.
The Darkfall world has one huge continent, and three smaller ones. What sets
the Darkfall world apart from other games, is that there are hundreds of small
islands that players can travel to, explore and build their houses, cities
or clan bases on. There is also a huge underworld with miles of caves,
passages and underground rivers/lakes.«»
«»
In any case, there are about «c6»25 pages of text
covering each race available. «c7»So each player can get to know more about the
strong and weak sides of the characters, as it's not possible to play all
races from the same account. Apart from that, «c6»Darkfall can be played any way
you want. «c7»If you want to get involved in conquest, wars and ruling kingdoms,
you join a clan, or get together with some friends and start your own.
If you just want to be a lone adventurer, hunting for treasure, magical items
and fame, you just go out and do it. You can even be a mercenary, selling your
sword arm to the highest bidder, or a merchant, setting up caravans and shops
in different cities, buying high quality hides from Mahirim hunters, and selling
them for top prices at Human cities. You can even hook up with a few friends
and be pirates, sailing your galleon around, plundering merchant ships and other
pirates, or a Dwarven blacksmith, crafting mighty magical weapons and armor,
or maybe a farmer producing rare herbs and spell reagents that you can sell
in the cities. «c6»Darkfall «c7»has a 100% skill based character advancement system,
meaning you learn a new skill or spell from an NPC or another player and this
skill or spell is raised by being used. Some skills and spells are race specific,
meaning you can not learn them unless you are of the appropriate race. The races
also have limits on what they can and cant learn. Skills start at 1 and can be
raised to 100. There should be around 500 spells and 500 skills in
«c6»Darkfall, «c7»because the creators want to make combat, spellcasting, trade and item
creation as  interesting as possible. They want every player to have their own
personal set of favourite spells and skills, so no combat situation is the same.
The spells are divided into several different schools of magic: Lesser Magic,
Greater Magic, Element of Fire, Element of Earth, Element of Water, Element of Air,
Witchcraft, Spellsinging, Necromancy, Wild Magic, Arcane Magic and Ritual Magic.
In addition there are some special spells that do not fit directly into any
school of magic, such as racial specialty spells. The players have total control
of what and how they want to play. The possibilities seem to be endless.«»
«»
«ac»«c5»THE CONCEPT AND THE WISHES«»
«»
«as»«c7»The basic concept of Darkfall is the «c6»struggle for power «c7»and control between
the different races. This along with all the player-run clans fighting for
kingdoms, dungeons and resources will drive the game. There are several
underlying themes, but these are primarily based around quests and monthly
events.«»
«»
How many people that will take part in this struggle for power is yet to be
seen. However, the «c6»Razorwax «c7»team are aiming at 10.000 on each server cluster,
hoping for 20.000 and dreaming about 30.000 players at once.
Razorwax have created boards where interested people can register. Already
now there are over 400 members which take part in the Darkfall discussions,
Developer forums, Clan related issues and more.«»
«»
The first affiliate site is also up and running at «c6»darkfall.mmorpg.net«»
«»
«c7»A Pre-Alpha version of the Darkfall game was out for testing the 5th of
December last year
for a few invited people and more will be allowed to join later on this
year, but the final game won't be released before 2003 as
written above. Anyway, I look forward to this mindblasting new roleplaying
game which I'm sure will be a great success! And as many amiga sceners also
have PCs and love roleplaying games, I know I won't be the only one playing
this game. I just have to purchase a PC first, but still I have at least
one more year to do just that, hehe...«»
«»
Good luck to all at Razorwax.«»
«»
Check out Darkfall yourself: «c6»www.darkfallonline.com«»
«»
«c7»Note: All information about Darkfall and the screenshots are taken from the
official Darkfall sites with kind permission of Razorwax AS.«»
«»
«»
«e»
