discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»SCARAB - A NEW GROUP IS BORN«»
«»
«c1»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»
«»
«ac»«c5»A NEW GROUP«»
«»
«as»
«c7»Scarab may be a new group into the amiga scene, but the members are not
newcomers at all. Infact most of the members of «c6»Scarab «c7»(do not mistake it
for the group Scarab-Corpse on PC), come from the german crew «c6»Secretly!
«c7»That's the group which won the Mekka-Symposium 4k intro competition last
year by the way.«»
«»
But right after the Mekka-Symposium party Secretly! got some internal
problems, and all the members (except the organizer and founder) left them
to create Scarab. We in the «c6»D.I.S.C. Team «c7»asked the new unofficial "organizer" of Scarab
why they didn't get rid of the problem within Secretly! instead of founding
a totally new group. «c6»Scicco «c7»answered «c6»"The problem you were talking about was
Mr.Vain, and he was the leader and founder of Secretly. Mostly everyone of
us had a problem with kicking the founder and keeping the original name. We
thought that if we have skill it doesn't matter under which label our
productions will be released. So that's why we decided to leave the group
and found a new one even when Secretly! started to become known.".«»
«»
«c7»And this was the start of the new group. But before actually starting up, a
name of the new group had to be decided. «c6»"We did some internal voting",
«c7»Scicco tells us. «c6»"First of all I collected suggestions of all 
members and Lubber/Padua. We had about 60 possible names. The second step 
was to find out the best names. Every member voted for the names he liked. 
After two or three voting steps we had 5 names left. The final voting 
decided the name. There were alternatives like 'Ophrasia', 'Zodiac', 
'Contour' and 'Unified'. Scarab won the voting, it had a slight lead with 
one point over the others. So now we call us ourself Scarab. :)".«»
«»
«c7»In addition to the Secretly! setup minus «c6»Mr.Vain, «c7»Scarab also got some
reinforcements. The coders «c6»Sniper and R.A.Y «c7»joined them in Germany, and
last, the first foreign member joined aswell. It was the Danish musician
«c6»Puryx.«»
«»
«c7»Some of the Scarab members are doublemembers (and triplemembers), therefore
we asked Scicco if this would have any effect on the productivity level.
«c6»"Of course a doublemembership will steal you some resources from the group
which results in a longer period of development. So it is on the group to
get most of the power out of a doublemember for the groups interests.
I think the key to keep a member interested in some work for Scarab is to
give him a prospect of success and the feeling that the group still stands
behind him.".«»
«»
«c5»THE FUTURE«»
«»
«c7»The Scarab members have been behind some good productions in the past, but
under the Secretly! label. Especially the «c6»Boom intro «c7»was very impressive.
Now we're naturally interested in what they'll come up with in Scarab. But
to find out what they are was working on, was not that easy. Scicco writes:
«c6»"You have to see that I don't want to tell you much about our plans. :)
I dislike to announce a production which might will not be finished in time.
But you can be sure that we're currently working on some new stuff. So keep
your eyes open.". «c7»The D.I.S.C. Team couldn't be satisfied with this answer,
so we tried harder to get the Scarab crew to reveal something.«»
«»
«c6»"First of all I have to say that we loved it to create a 4k intro, so you 
can easily imagine that we won't stop coding 4k intros in the future. We 
coders like to kill bits and bytes in some small code. :) In addition we 
will try to bring you some quality stuff in the future so you have to 
understand that we won't release loads of intros and demos each month but 
we will try to concentrate on some more quality in the productions so that 
you might like them. :)" «c7»Scicco tells us. In the middle of November last
year Scarab released their first production under their label. It was a
«c6»slideshow «c7»with pictures from the TRSAC 3 party.«»
«»
We in D.I.S.C. certainly believe Scarab will manage to come up with some
quality productions in the future as the group consists of some really
talented & friendly members. The members of Scarab also have the advantage
that 5 of the members live close to eachother in Berlin/Germany. This makes
the internal communication and cooperation much easier. And besides, about
all members know eachother and are friends. This could only mean that the
scene will get much more to look forward to from the «c6»friendly forces of Scarab.«»
«»
«c7»There's one man which we should all thank for this. He's actually not a
member of Scarab nor the amiga scene. But his name is «c3»Lubber/Padua «c7»and a
part of the cool C64 scene. He actually won the 32K Game compo at the MS
party with Dreamcars 64 last year. Anyway, it was «c6»Lubber «c7»which got «c6»Scicco
interested in the amiga scene. And we all know that this has resulted in
him keeping «c6»StingRay «c7»motivated... and well, keeping another amiga group
alive and kicking! So thanks to Lubber, which still come up with
suggestions and support for the Scarab members. And certainly he also gets
some help in return from Scarab.«»
«»
«c7»Good luck to both «c6»Lubber/Padua «c7»and «c6»Scarab «c7»in the future!«»
«»
«c6»CURRENT MEMBERSLIST OF SCARAB:«»
«»
«c7»DaNDeE     -  Graphician«»
DC.Clark   -  Musician & Coder«»
Influence  -  3D Modeller & Tracer«»
Medi       -  Tools-Coder«»
Puryx      -  Musician«»
R.A.Y      -  Coder«»
Scicco     -  Coder & Webmaster«»
Sniper     -  Coder«»
StingRay   -  Coder«»
«»
«»
«e»
