discnew.font,8
«s6=166,227,181»
«s7=191,206,254»
«»
«c2»«ac»IS IT ALWAYS ABOUT BEING THE BEST?«»
«»
«c1»By Punisher/Gods+Nah-Kolor«»
«»
«»
«»
«as»«c7»During  the  years  I  have released many productions, and most people will
judge  them  like  «c6»crap.   «c7»I  do not care about this, as I had lot's of «c6»fun
«c7»making  them  and loved the feeling of being a bit «c6»creative «c7»on my computer.
I  have  learned  many things during the last years, and I still do.  Maybe
not  in  such  a  huge  scale as others, but I'm learning, and «c6»I'm enjoying
myself  being  a  scener.   «c7»Now,  this  article  is  not  about  myself, my
productions  or my groups productions, it is about «c6»how I feel about current
atmosphere  of  our community.  «c7»It is in a way an egosentric article, but I
believe  that  the main editors, will let me  go  through with this as we
have freedom of speech on the scene.  Thank you.«»
«»
There  is  one person, and I will not mention his name, that has «c6»criticised
some  groups  in a hard way due to their productions.  «c7»It seemed to me like
he  did not want these groups to exist, and that they should stop releasing
demos  and intros because the stuff was so crappy anyway.  Well, I have one
thing  to say to that - stop looking down at other people having fun or who
are  «c6»just  doing their best!  «c7»Not everyone can run the 100 metres sprint as
fast  as Carl Lewis or Marlene Ottey, but some people may try it anyway, as
they find it fun.  The point should not always be «c6»about being the best, «c7»but
to  be  a  part  of  something  and  participate or simply to have «c6»fun with
like-minded  people.  «c7»That is the idea I have of the scene, and that is how
I  want it to be in the future.  I do not think it is correct and proper to
ask  someone,  who is not as skilled as you, to stop his activities because
you simply do not want to see his crap on your monitor.  If this is how the
scene is going to be in the future, then «c6»I do not want to be a part of it.«»
«»
«c7»All  groups  on the scene have had a starting point, and they have evolved,
either  slow  or fast.  One have to start somewhere and one must experience
many  difficulties before getting somewhere.  Different people do also have
different  goals.   Not everyone are into the scene because they want to be
famous  and  become the best ever, some are «c6»just in it for the fun, «c7»the joy
and to be creative in one way or another.  If one constantly slagg of these
people and their productions, like have been done by some people, they will
eventually  disappear  and  start  looking  at  the  scene like a place for
boredom  and  seriousness.  In my opinion, one can be serious at school, at
work, in family matters, in short, in every aspect of real life.  The scene
is  like  football  to hooligans, a way to get away from daily life, to let
something from themselves out and to be a part of something (in this case a
mob).   Take  away  the fun, then what is left?  It will be like a dreadful
job.«»
«»
In  a  specific  letter,  «c6»Lahve/Reason  «c7»wrote  me  something  I  found very
interesting, and I will quote;«»
«»
«c6»"I  think,  who  has elitism behaviour today, he is just fucker for others,
doesn't  matter  how  good  he  is.   Friendshipping is more important than
anytime."«»
«»
«c7»The  thoughts  crammed  into  these  lines  of bytes should be in everyones
minds.  They are very important, as they mean that «c6»friendship «c7»should be the
ground  fundament of the scene, and the banner that will unite us all.  The
elite  thinking  should  be far away now, but still one can see signs of it
here and there.  Let us hope it is buried with the past.«»
«»
Anyway,  imagine  that you are going to a party to see the democometitions.
Three entries are delivered and all of them are average ones containing the
usual 3D scenes.  "Only three?", you will say.  "Isn't there any new people
joining  the  scene?",  you  may think.  This could be the situation if one
does not take care of small and more friendship orientated groups.  At this
party,  it  could  have been different.  Maybe six demos was released?  One
very  good,  two average, and three either more funny or crappy.  You would
probably  think  something  like, "Six demos.  Not bad.  That «c6»AHA-demo «c7»from
Apathy  was  really  funny!   Hehe",  and  have  a good laugh for yourself.
Actually  this "AHA" idea from Strife/Apathy have softened it all up a bit.
His  style is unbeliveably cool, and he has experienced success with it.  I
say,  «c6»let  everyone  participate,  «c7»give  credits  to  groups  that are very
skilled,  but also give nice words to those stribing to become better or to
those that are releasing for fun.«»
«»
Thank you for your time, and I hope that my thoughts gave you something.«»
«»
«e»
