»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
                »CL8:»BIG:Column
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

          »CL4:By Magic/Nah Kolor

»CL9:Merry Christmas HoHoHo.. »CL0:It's been a
while since I wrote my last column.
The last time it was somewhere in 1996
I think. When I acted like a columnist even regulary. Yet »CL1:Curt Cool of Depth»
asked me to support the brand new
issue of »CL1:the Official Eurochart»
released at The Party 1997, batteries
not included.
Ironicly my last column was published
in one of the biggest competitive
chartmagazines for the EC in the
scene: »CL1:'Showtime'». But some healthycompetition hasn't hurt anyone in the
scene so far thus some respect out
there to all chart and magazines
around.
»CL1:The Official Eurochart» actually has
been a 'red line' troughout my scene
life. In the old days when »CL1:Crusaders»
were behind the steering wheel I first
made contact with some old issue. I
think it was around issue 3 or 4.
Later on when »CL1:Static Bytes» took over I
knew most people involved, »CL1:Estrup» and
especially »CL1:Fashion/Stb» who supported
the EC with many votes and all his
fabulous scans for the Gallery. I even
wrote an article about the EC in »CL1:RAW»
issue 9, together with Mount of Polka
Brothers about Static Bytes inactivity
and thus the EC. Yet »CL1:Depth» has taken
over the EC luckely. 
I also know Curt Cool/Depth for years
now, though the contact has never been
that tight between him and me, but I
have great confidence in his
capabilities. :) 
These days I sometimes think about the
function CHARTS have in our scene. For
a young scene kid it really motivates
and stimulates your scene activity but
since everybody realised by know that
the average age in the scene is in
it's twenties already I think the
function more and more changed to only
an overview in 'what and who is hot
and who is not' Prefered to write it
like 'Most popular' .. Which not
always reflects in who is the best or
not.
»CL4:What can 1998 mean for the Amiga
Scene? Breaktroughs by new potential
Chart groups? The followup group to
the somewhat decaying »CL5:TBL» ? Or more
importantly the PPC? First we have to
celebrate with our close friends and
contacts at the 31th of December, than
we can start looking on yet again a
new scene year.
Reminds me, will certain AMIGA
computers run wild when we go into the
new century in 2 years? I think you
all have heard about the 'millenium
problem' by now. Clocks in every
computersystem you can imagine will go
from 1999 to 1900 instead of going to
2000, making the computer systems
crash. Airplanes crashing, your wages
don't get paid on time, amiga coders
who loose their new sources (:-) -ed).
That kind of problems. Ah well, It
will fly by I guess.. In anyway I'll
be back with a new column in the next
issue of »CL5:the Official Eurochart.»

Keep voting, stay active but more
importantly spoil your girlfriend once
in a while, she is worth it :)
»CL9:(*) 1997 I am out of here.. C ya.. (*)»
Signed,»CL4:Magic of Nah-kolor»