»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
       »BIG:»CL8:Double membership -
»SML:       »BIG:Simply a new trend?
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

             »CL4:by Curt Cool

»CL0:This is not necessarily an answer to
»CL1:Darkhawk's» article in »CL1:Generation #25»,
but it is an article about the double
or triple or even quadriple
memberships which seem to have become
so incredibly common these days on the
scene. Also, I think that this very
subject will become a hot topic for
everyone to give their opinion on in
all the diskmags during 1998, this is
one thing I am sure of.
We do need groups, but today
that might be because of the label,
the good name which is needed to
release good demos. 
But let us have a look on why
the sceners have started to become
members of eachothers groups so very
often it is the case today:

I say that the reason is that with the
internet, everyone are able to talk to
eachother, which means everyone can
make friends. Also, many sceners have
been on the scene for so long that
they know a lot of people from other
groups so very well that they might as
well be in group with them as well -
have a look at the cream of eg. the 
Polish scene, and you will notice
that almost everyone are doublemembers
- here am I talking about groups like
»CL1:Anadune», »CL1:Floppy», »CL1:Nah-Kolor», »CL1:Mawi» &
»CL1:Appendix».
Now, »CL1:Darkhawk», will you perhaps answer
me this question: Should all these
people join one group with eg. 50 or
60 members, thus making friendship and
contact rather hard, or continue to be
a member of several groups?

I believe that the reason why we see
so many doublemembers in fact shows a
higher amount of friendship in the
scene, as well as a will to achieve a
common goal, namely making a
production - instead of promoting just
one group. I still believe that the
proudness of seeing one of ones groups
in the charts has not gone missing.

Another reason could be that many
talented musicians and graphicians
perhaps feel as if they do not get
enough stuff released - and then
decide to join (an)other group(s) as
well to gain fame and/or friends.

     »PIC:Zack4.iff»














I have asked several doublemembers, 
what they think of double-membership, 
and here are some selected reactions:


»CL1:Hawk/Giants&Darkage&Ambrosia», on why
he is a doublemember: Why? ... Hmmm,
good question... :) The main reason is
probably because I am a softie at 
heart so whenever some resonable
team with some people I know in it
asks me I agree to join. :D

»CL1:Jazz/Haujobb&Subspace&Smoke», on the
same subject: It`s cool to live out my
productivity in full,and if you are
the one who is always having too much
ideas, two or more groups sure are in
need of them.

»CL1:Estrayk/Capsule&Nah-Kolor» on what he
thinks of double membership: Well for
artists and musicians, not for coders.

»CL1:Jazz»: I don`t think that double
membership is a bad thing ingeneral.
if one is talented and motivated 
enough, it`s sure no prob to dance in
several groups, but the quality seal
has to be approved and somehow there
has to be a "homebase" group - like 
in my case, »CL1:Haujobb».

  »PIC:Z1.iff»






»CL1:Hawk»: I feel good about it, as long as
the person in question can handle the
situation it's nothing wrong with it.
Lately it's been difficult for me to
handle it though. Work and membership
in three groups and free-lancing as an
editor in the Iris mag Miracle just 
before christmas was... 
... ... very work intense. :)

Which brings us on to the letdowns:
»CL1:Jazz»: Yes, talking about group 
internal things. There is always 
competition between groups and so
you have to really think twice about
the spoken words. The 2nd thing is
that just before a sceneparty, 
everyone is asking you about doing
something = sometimes too much ;). 