»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
            »CL8:»BIG:The Party 7 -
»SML:       Batteries not included!
»CL9:--------------------------------------

»CL4:             by Curt Cool

»CL0:Yes, another year has passed, another
»CL1:The Party» is soon to be at its end.
And once again, the »CL1:Eurochart» is able
to bring you a live party-report -
written among sleepy, smelly, tired
(as I write now, »CL1:Cytron» is fast asleep
facing his keyboard) sceners, or
rather, »CL2:pc»-»CL3:doom»-»CL4:gif»-»CL5:jpeg»-»CL9:LAMERS» at 
5:15 in the morning where yours truly
is rather tired and on coffein pills
himself, waiting for the demo
competition.

But what has happened before? And why
is this party-report in the
ObSceneties section usually reserved
for joke articles of the most
spandimerding kind?
Let us start the party report from
another point in time, 2 days from
today, where I, »CL1:Ib & Optima/Depth» &
Optima's brother »CL1:Corial» arrived at
Aalborg station with our equipment,
waiting for a nice bus with a nice The
Party 1997 sign in the front window,
only to be disappointed when we found
out that we had to travel by the
local, slow, expensive bus, completely
unsuitable for transporting the huge
amount of equipment carried by us and
all the other sceners going - this was
the first thing to piss me off, and it
really did - after all the price of a
party ticket has gone »CL9:up» by »CL1:50 dkr».
since last year, so one could at least 
expect the same service as last year,
that's for sure.

When we arrive, we got in and saw the
huge amount of »CL1:pc gamelamers», the
disappearingly few Amigas, found our
table and got seated - we sat there
for a couple of hours, working as hard
as all the other people to finish our
productions, but suddenly, the power
from our table went out - shit!

»CL4:After another hour, it was announced
that the power would be completely
shut down for an hour because that
people were using far too much power -
not surprising considering that the
amount of people invited was much
bigger than last year, not surprising
considering that the screens have
become bigger and clearer - just not
surprising. An hour went. »CL9:2» hours
went, and we decided to go for some
beer (and started worrying whether the
power would come up again before
monday at 15) - and after »CLA:3» hours, the
power was finally back - an ageing
transformer station had had a meltdown
because of The Party, and had been
substituted by the Danish electricity
company.

But because of the problems with the
power, the main bigscreen had burned
down earlier that day, and so, another
couple of hours were spent testing a
new one, thus making the whole program
very much delayed.

»CL0:So basically, the first days turned out
even worse than we had dared to think
- it is amazing that so much can go
wrong in so little time. »CL1:But it can» -
for the Party organizers.

About the competitions, the »CL1:Amiga 4k»
was okay, »CL1:10 entries» which is a lot,
though nothing extremely outstanding,
the »CL1:Amiga 40k» was amazing with »CL1:20
entries» and brilliant intros by
»CL1:Efreet», »CL1:Scoopex», »CL1:Oxyron» & »CL1:Haujobb» just
to mention a few (»CL1:Efreets» was probably
the most impressive, featuring music
of about 380kb, lots & lots of
graphics and great effects).
Mind you, all the Amiga competitions
were shown on a 060, so everything
looked really good.



   »PIC:Judas1.iff»

















As for the »CL1:graphics & music»
competitions, the graphics competition
featured plenty of high quality
releases, and the 4ch competition
featured many different styles in the
18 modules played (out of 50 delivered
ones).

But that is perhaps the only great
thing - why are the Amiga sceners 
still coming to »CL1:The Party?»
It has to be tradition, because there
have been problems every year since 
1993.

The Party has become so commercial one
wants to »CL9:puke».
It is possible to buy tickets through
»CL1:BilletNet» (and pay a fee), you have
to order seats through internet, they
don't accept any entries delivered too
late, and most importantly, looking at
the press release, it simply isn't a
scene party anymore, it is a meeting
for pc game lamers who want to play
the latest doom clone all day via net,
swap »CL1:gif», »CL1:mpeg» & »CL1:jpeg» - why do we, the
Amiga sceners, the ones The Party was
originally ment for, even bother to
come anymore - the spirit has gone!

Come to »CL1:Symposium-Mekka», that's where
the »CLA:spirit» is today, I say!
That's where the organizers are
friendly, that's where you can have a
beer without being slaughtered by
menacing maniacs with bordeaux 
shirts...
...we'll be there! 