»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
         »CL8:»BIG:Showtime Changes -
        Changing the scene?
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

             »CL4:by Curt Cool

»CL0:Yes, most of you know it by now,
»CL1:Showtime» has done, what many chart
editors has been thinking about,
perhaps since the beginning of scene
time.
They have decided that it is now only
possible to vote for new productions
and active people in the regular
categories, and that seems like a good
idea. The time-span for productions is
set to 2.5 years, and 1.5 years for
sceners, which means that many of
the old scene legends, »CL1:Jogeir», »CL1:Chaos»,
»CL1:Heatbeat», »CL1:Dizzy» will suddenly vanish
into the '»CL1:7 Wonders of the Scene»'-
chart which has cleverly been invented
for the the same purpose.

And that is all fine - but why didn't
anyone decide to take this step
before? Why didn't THIS very chartmag
do it? Showtime are certainly not the
first to think of it, and we know that
many people are tired of seeing the
same old ex.-sceners, ex. Amiga owners
in the charts, along with productions
like »CL1:'Jesterday'» (GGGRRRRRRR -ed.) and
so on.

Actually, I am impressed with the fact
that »CL1:Showtime» have dared to take this
step. I would not have dared. But why
not?

First of all, the work connected with
making such rules:
For every single production, for every
single person voted on, I, who am the
votecounter in the »CL1:Eurochart» staff,
would have to find out how old the
production were, and how long it is
since that person released something.
That surely is a lot of work - and
what if I am wrong? How many people
know that »CL1:Dizzy/CNCD» released a
competition module at the »CL1:Assembly
'96», which wasn't played? Surely that
must count as a release, no?
How many people know that Heatbeat did
the same thing a few months earlier at
another Finnish party?
Nobody knows everything, and surely I
would make some mistakes, which would
make people angry with me, simply
because such mistakes would be
unavoidable.

And another reason, who says that
these old legends were not in fact the
best? Everything that is new is not
necessarily better than the old stuff. 

And yet another one: Am I to decide
who and what people vote for? I think
not - if the scene wants the present
scene stars in the Eurochart, they 
will have to vote for them themselves.
And undoubtedly, as we can see, they
actually do - things are changing, and
I see no need for force.

But, dear »CL1:Showtime» staff - what you
have just done takes guts -
undoubtedly it has to be tried - to do
what a lot of people want - but I
myself am a pessimist, and I don't
think it will work - sorry.
         »PIC:Zack6.iff» 