»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
   »CL8:»BIG:Charts - What do they show?
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

           »CL4:Tricktrax/Puzzle

»CL0:I had downloaded the »CL1:EuroChart #31» and
studied the charts for a while when I
noticed a peculiar thing. People don't
vote for people - people vote for
groups. Well, you say, there are
catagories in which you are supposed
to vote for the groups. That's right,
but apparently people vote for groups
in all catagories. An example:

In the musicdisk chart there is a very
succesfull musicdisk from »CL1:Artwork
»called »CL1:'Blurred Notes'». It entered the
EuroChart in issue #29 and has climbed
steadily ever since, now possesing the
4.th place. Great achievement! But
what about the musician responsible
for this highly popular music? Well,
his name is »CL1:The Loop» and he has »CL9:NEVER»
entered the Eurochart! His musicdisk
got »CL1:76» points, but The Loop himself
didn't even get the »CL1:34» points needed
for a 20.th place on the musicians
chart. Why? I'll tell you why! People
vote for the musicdisk primarily
because it is an »CL1:Artwork» production
and secondly because they like the
music. If the music was the primary
reason I think people would remember
the musicians name when they fill out
the votesheets as it is the case with
Revisq, whose ratings look a lot more
alike in the Musicians & Musicdisk
charts.



 »PIC:Zack2.iff»
















The correct explanation for this
phenomena is not so simple as it might
seem and there are more examples like
the one mentioned. Productions rise to
great heights on the charts, but the
individuals are left out. To me it
seems that votesheets are filled out
more or less careless (I have done it
myself) and therefore not worth much. 

So dear voter, if you »CL1:ARE» voting for
the music in a musicdisk or the
graphics in a slideshow, remember who
the guy behind it is and give him a
vote too. Only that way you can show
that you aren't voting for a
production just because it is made by
a specific group, but because you
think it is great quality. 